# 2023-08-14

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Project Director Election Process Update (*Eric Holk* **Time**: 5 Minutes)
  - **Goal**: Inform on current status and next steps.
- Private moderation team issue (*Ryan Levick* **Time**: 5 Minutes)
  - **Goal**: Ensure clarity on next steps including path for public disclosure
- Assign sub-groups for high priorities (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 15 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Determine who will focus on each of the top three priorities.
        1. Documenting and improving processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation.
        2. Strengthen the moderation team and policies.
        3. Figuring out the "shape" of the Rust Project.
- Alternate affiliation limits (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide on a public proposal on whether alternates count towards affiliation limits.
    - **Proposal**: Alternates do not count towards affiliation limits.
        - The counter proposal is: Alternates must not exceed existing affiliation limits.
    - **Background**: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/27
    - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Alternate.20Affiliation.20Limits
- Survey Working Group (*Ryan Levick*, **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Inform about deffunct survey working group and decide on next steps
      - **Secondary goal**: start thinking about how we can advertise and coordinate hand off of this type of work
    - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Posting.20.28very.20long.20overdue.29.20Survey.20Results
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Mark, Ryan, Eric Huss, JoshG, Jack Huey, Mara, Carol (second half)
Unavailable: JP, Khio

## Minutes

- Assign roles
    - Ryan facilitates, Mark to scribe
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Project Director Election Process Update (*Eric Holk* **Time**: 5 Minutes)
  - **Goal**: Inform on current status and next steps.
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/12
  - Eric Holk: We've started checkboxes (4 signoffs so far). Urgently we need to sign-off and then get an announcement blog post out to kick it off fully. Note that there is some lag time due to built-in delays.
  - Ryan: We should poke people to get checkboxes, are you owning that?
      - Eric Holk: Yes.
  - Ryan: Urgency is mostly for October, project director terms end in September (after extensions).
  - Mark: Let's pull Foundation into blog post drafting once we're there. They would also like to publish something linking and/or replicating content about the post here.
  - Ryan: I think we can start drafting blog now, we can parallelize final sign off with that.
  - Eric Holk: My plan is to kick off drafting the blog post etc. today.
- Private moderation team issue (*Ryan Levick* **Time**: 5 Minutes)
  - **Goal**: Ensure clarity on next steps including path for public disclosure
  - Ryan: No concerns yet expressed.
  - Mark: Have we resolved the concern around moderation of council members given no other moderators who are independent?
      - Ryan: I think we should prioritize getting more moderators, this seems OK.
          - +1s from Eric Holk, Mara
      - Mark: But, the situation here *is* unique. The RFC is specific that the moderator on the council recuses themselves from actions involving the council.
  - Mark: I think we need to publicly state/acknowledge the problem prior to announcement/formal approval, but otherwise we should move forward here.
      - Eric Holk: +1 to that public announcement.
      - Mark will own making sure this is included in the post.
  - Ryan: Carol is drafting the announcement text, goal is end of week having path forward.
- Assign sub-groups for high priorities (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 15 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Determine who will focus on each of the top three priorities.
        1. Documenting and improving processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation.
        2. Strengthen the moderation team and policies.
        3. Figuring out the "shape" of the Rust Project.
    - Eric Huss: Would like to start driving on these priorities, in particular formally assigning people to one or more. But, more broadly, want to figure out how we want to start executing. Interested in 3.
    - Jack Huey: Did we ask about these to teams? 3 in particular seems likely to have input.
    - Ryan: I think we should move forward with these items. Unlikely to get strong positive approval from folks, given historical evidence on interest in governance. Definitely need to incorporate and pull in others into this work, including as per RFC.
    - Ryan: For moderation issue, Josh is charged with looking for new moderators. Can someone help be a support role there?
        - JoshG, Eric Holk primary, with Mara optionally supporting.
        - Eric Holk: I can help with this.
        - Mara can also help if needed, but not necessary to help.
    - Ryan: For 1, any volunteers?
        - Do we want project directors mostly here?
        - Mark is happy to help. Really wants someone who is *not* a project director though as lead.
            - Ryan: +1 to needing someone else.
        - Eric Huss: Missing context for me to know what problems, etc. are.
            - Mark: yes, though also true for me :)
        - Mark: Maybe trademark could be a possibility...? A concrete problem, needs solving, potentially time sensitive.
            - Eric Huss: Also lacking context there. And, lots of emotions/interest on the issue.
            - Ryan: I think the trademark itself is maybe less interesting, vs. the surrounding context (e.g., do project vs. foundation priorities differ here, etc.). I think it would continue to be excellent to have some outside party leading this, who isn't yet deeply involved/knowledgeable.
    - Ryan: For 3, any volunteers?
        - Eric Huss (leading), Jack Huey volunteers.
    - Jack: Should we set up a specific date for followup in the future?
    - Ryan: I was expecting we would add into the agenda.
    - Ryan: Proposal -- let's send all@ email and note what we have today, asking for volunteers.
        - Mark to own this drafting. Possibly can also raise it in inside rust.
        - Eric Huss to start enumerating initial focus areas.
- Alternate affiliation limits (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide on a public proposal on whether alternates count towards affiliation limits.
    - **Proposal**: Alternates do not count towards affiliation limits.
        - The counter proposal is: Alternates must not exceed existing affiliation limits.
    - **Background**: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/27
    - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Alternate.20Affiliation.20Limits
    - Eric Huss: Would like to amend RFC policy to avoid limiting alternate affiliations. More important to have representation rather than juggling representation.
    - Mara: We have a time-bound for the affiliations (3 months?), so we could just apply the same to the alternate/temporary members.
        - Eric Huss: Clarifies that the existing RFC 3 month grace period is for *existing* representatives to stay.
    - Eric Holk: Also thought we could use that clause. But in general, seems like affiliation limits shouldn't matter for folks unless they are serving for a long time.
    - Josh Gould: Letting it be temporary means that we're in an awkward situation, explicit violation if that drags out because there's no one else to put in place.
    - Ryan: I feel like temporary is fine. Better to have someone rather than having no one.
    - Jack Huey: +1 to Ryan. Things could get reversed if temporary is short enough.
    - Eric Holk: Responding to Josh's concern - the main representative *should* still be around, so it's not clear that we should run into this difficulty.
    - Carol: No huge context on how these were decided upon in the first place, but it seems like we could also change the affiliation limits if it continues to be a problem for us. Not an immediate option, but we should update if it becomes impractical.
    - Mara: I'm not worried about temporary folks; the important thing is making sure that we have different affiliations formally across the council. Who is in a particular meeting isn't as important.
    - Ryan: Shall we take this offline to have someone put together a proposal for the right next step, i.e., summary of the current state and concrete proposal?
        - Eric Huss: I think we're not yet ready to come to a firm conclusion, but seems like there are blocking objections around allowing temporary affiliation problems?
        - Ryan: Let's write up a short policy and drive this through checkboxes or so.
        - Eric Huss: I'll own writing up that short policy to get a consensus. This will require an RFC to finalize, so the final decision is at least weeks out.
- Survey Working Group (*Ryan Levick*, **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Inform about defunct survey working group and decide on next steps
      - **Secondary goal**: start thinking about how we can advertise and coordinate hand off of this type of work
    - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Posting.20.28very.20long.20overdue.29.20Survey.20Results
    - Ryan: Taking this offline to Zulip due to time constraints.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
