# 2023-09-07

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- *Private agenda items*
- Sync meeting scheduling (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 10 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide on a cadence (if any).
    - **Goal**: Try to un-stick the scheduling process.
    - **Goal**: Get a commitment for being ready for the Oct 1 Project Director election.
- What to do with Launching Pad? (*Jonathan Pallant* **Time**: 20 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Discuss possible ideas for deciding on where to take the team structure.
    - **Related links**:
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/32 (Review the top-level teams and rearrange as appropriate)
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33 (Review and organize overall project team structure)
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Carol, Eric Huss, Eric Holk, JP, Mara, Jack, JoshG, Ryan, Mark

## Minutes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Mark scribe, Ryan to facilitate
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - Project director request on US Gov RFI
        - https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/335408-foundation/topic/US.20gov.20RFI.20on.20OSS.20and.20memory.20safe.20languages
    - Meeting observer PR still in FCP
        - waiting on Mara, Carol, and Josh (do we need to manually switch from Khio?)
    - Foundation / PD mediation/moderation short discussion
        - Ryan asked for a little bit of research on their side on how they could support us
    - PD election process is 1/2 done (until next Friday)
        - Some nominees across compiler & lang so far (maybe others). Let's try to keep pushing on that.
- Consent to agenda
- *Private agenda items*
- Sync meeting scheduling (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 10 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide on a cadence (if any).
    - **Goal**: Try to un-stick the scheduling process.
    - **Goal**: Get a commitment for being ready for the Oct 1 Project Director election.
    - Jonathan: Proposing +1 month recurrence.
    - Ryan: I can't perpetually meet at this time. Too late for me. But, also in conflict with others.
    - Mara: Too late for me too.
    - Jonathan: Not scheduling in advance is hard.
    - Ryan: Failed to schedule +X weeks into the future so far.
    - Eric Holk: Foundation board scheduling?
        - Mark: That's at a constant time.
    - Josh: Not seeing a conclusion here.
    - Ryan: I'll send out a doodle.
- 2024 edition planning (*Jack Huey*, **Time**: ??? minutes)
    - Jane brought up to me on behalf of the style team asking about status of edition 2024 planning. I'm personally not sure exactly what the status is, but I imagine it's something the council might be helping to coordinate across teams.
        - to expand on that a bit more, the style team needs to know when the project as a whole is planning to ship the next edition so that we can do our own style_edition planning and communicate that plan well in advanced of any cutoff dates for landing changes that such planning would include
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/7c1d8c32266ecbf13ff599e602c826b6bcd5b44d/minutes/sync-meeting/2023-08-03.md?plain=1#L12-L16
    - Mara: Nothing happened in the last meeting. Going to try to coordinate this again.
- What to do with Launching Pad? (*Jonathan Pallant* **Time**: 20 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Discuss possible ideas for deciding on where to take the team structure.
    - **Related links**:
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/32 (Review the top-level teams and rearrange as appropriate)
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33 (Review and organize overall project team structure)
    - Jonathan: Have had discussions with embedded and async. Both are interesting in their own way. Some wgs ought to move closer to the project. Some other parts are really just users, not clear how that fits into the project. WGs are a convenient fudge here. Not clear what the next step ought to be.
    - Jack Huey: "Shape of Project" initiative has had a bit of discussion as well. Looking to connect with that.
    - Ryan: Also want to make sure we're not forgetting that just perspective of the WGs isn't the only factor.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
