# 2023-11-10

## Agenda

# 2023-11-10

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Old business
  - Team merging of Release and Infra (Ryan Levick)
    - Inform: What is the status of the RFC? (Carol is interested to know if/how we can help and make sure this doesn't get lost)
  - "Shape of the Rust Project" (Eric Huss)
      - Decide: Should we form a subcomittee to put together survey?
      - [Discussion notes](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/ByYqb_AT3#2023-11-09)
  - Team repo management (Jack)
      - [Notes and discussion points](https://hackmd.io/lyk5WoRzSFGj9aW2SWy1DA)
- New business
  - Foundation - how to develop expectations ([relevant Zulip topic](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Foundation.20-.20expectations)) (Mara)
    -  Decide: Who is going to own this and what are the next steps?
  - Affiliation limits (Eric Holk)
      - Decide: Is this something the council has interest in working on?
  - Decide: Do we want support from the Foundation for project management of the 2024 edition? ([relevant zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Ideas.20for.20project.20organization/near/401023719)) (Carol Nichols)
    - Who do we ask this question to? Edition leaders?
    - If the answer is yes, what are the next steps and owner of them?
  - Mailing list responses (ehuss)
      - **Goal:** Sense poll on how to handle them.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Council: Carol, Mark, Mara, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, Jonathan Pallant, Josh Gould

Observers: TC, Santiago

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: Eric Holk (nominated)
  - Note taking: Mark
- Turn on recording (done)
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda (done)
- Old business
  - Team merging of Release and Infra (Ryan Levick)
    - Inform: What is the status of the RFC? (Carol is interested to know if/how we can help and make sure this doesn't get lost)
    - Mark: Sort of on pause, mostly due to lack of bandwidth.
    - Jack: Should we get a volunteer?
    - Carol: I'll happily bug people about doing it.
  - "Shape of the Rust Project" (Eric Huss)
      - Decide: Should we form a subcomittee to put together survey?
      - A meeting was held on 2023-11-09 with Jonathan, Jack and both Erics.
          - [Discussion notes](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/ByYqb_AT3#2023-11-09)
      - Eric Huss: Discussed with a few folks yesterday. A survey that asks about expectations was one suggestion as a next step. Would like approval for a survey going out here.
      - Jack: Agreement that just approval for survey seems next step.
      - Eric Holk: No strong feeling on whether we create a committee. Happy to approve a survey.
      - Eric Huss: I'm OK formalizing a committee if we want it.
      - No objections to formalizing a team-repo committee, Eric Huss to own that.
  - Team repo management (Jack)
      - [Notes and discussion points](https://hackmd.io/lyk5WoRzSFGj9aW2SWy1DA)
      - 2023-11-07 meeting with Mark & Jack, discussed what we want.
      - Jack: pending decision - do we want a separate marker team for merge rights, or just infra-admins?
      - Josh: who is infra-admins? (Mark, Pietro, JD)
          - Josh: Do you have capacity?
          - Mark: Seems fine.
      - Carol: We had a proposal to add Jack in...?
      - Jack: Having an explicit team that owns PRs seems useful. Not sure we need less or more than that, though could help.
      - Jonathan: Default suggestion - let's give it to infra-admins. But could we ask?
      - Mark: I'm happy saying that we can take that work on.
      - Jack: Long-term a group that's not infra-admins is potentially good, since that is a highly privileged group.
      - Mark: Proposal - let's create a new marker team, add me to it, add Jack to it. Then we assign the rights to it.
          - Jonathan: Where does that sit in the org chart?
          - Jack: Just sits outside the structure.
      - With no objections, motion passes.
      - Mark: Will create marker team PR & put up a policy PR for FCP soon.
- New business
  - Affiliation limits (Eric Holk)
      - Decide: Is this something the council has interest in working on?
      - Eric Holk: Let's avoid discussing details of what they should be - but we've had some experience now, should we come back to the question and explore possible changes. Should we take a look?
      - Jack: Are you talking within the Council or expanding to Foundation PDs, or something else?
          - Eric Holk: Both. Though Council are easier to change.
      - Josh: Are you interested in exploring lessening restrictions?
          - Eric Holk: Yes-ish -- mostly want to re-examine the goals and the practical experience to decide on how to move forward.
      - Eric Huss: Shrinking council size was the original intent, e.g., 6-7. That will help with the Council limits.
      - Mara: *Clarifying* limits may also be important, even if we make no changes, e.g., around employment vs. contracting, to avoid surprises.
      - Josh: What is the driving goal in reduction of size?
          - Eric Huss: Improves a bunch of things - grid lock avoidance.
      - Jack: Seems like folks are in favor of going over what we have, at least. Clarifying at minimum and maybe making changes?
      - Eric Holk: Bare minimum outcome is to clarify the limits.
      - Mara: There will be decisions in the future where things aren't clear - we should try to come up with frameworks for how to interpret in such considerations. E.g. decide to by default error on the side of higher or lower limitations.
      - Mara: Affiliation limits by itself may be hard to isolate from other characteristics than companies (e.g., diversity), so that we can make tradeoffs in the larger optimization problem.
      - Eric Holk: +1. Who should own this? I'm happy to own it.
          - No objections.
          - Mara will volunteer.
          - Eric Holk to also follow up with PDs.
  - Decide: Do we want support from the Foundation for project management of the 2024 edition? ([relevant zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Ideas.20for.20project.20organization/near/401023719)) (Carol Nichols)
      - also https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/268952-edition/topic/Anything.20you'd.20want.20from.20the.20foundation
    - Who do we ask this question to? Edition leaders?
    - If the answer is yes, what are the next steps and owner of them?
    - Mara: Let's make sure we ask existing folks already involved if they want to be paid for the work they were already going to do.
    - Eric Huss: No objections to asking. Though, prioritizing this across other potential asks seems hard.
    - Jack: Some tradeoff in adding more hands vs. paying existing hands?
    - Carol: Link in the Zulip thread -- Niko made the suggestion in #council.
    - Josh: Getting editions out has been stressful historically. Should consider widening the scope to help - whatever that looks like - to the folks working on this.
    - Jack: Wider idea this is coming from is hiring for a project management role, though in the immediate helping with edition as part of that.
    - Eric Holk: We should definitely involve bstrie in this conversation.
    - Jack: We should think about defining how much effort this is. Maybe we ask if they can commit the time, then consider hiring if that's not feasible?
    - Josh: Anybody who needs to put time in to get things over the line.
    - Mark: Sounds like this could be an async conversation?
    - Mark: Also - let's try to avoid solving a big problem and not yet get anything done short-term now.
    - Carol: Objections to me raising this with bstrie and Eric over email?
        - No objections.
    - Mara: let's use this as a template for possible future such opportunities.
  - Mailing list responses (ehuss)
      - **Goal:** Sense poll on how to handle them.
      - Eric Huss: People are emailing us. We aren't necessarily responding. Want to come up with a way to have someone owning those responses. Also discuss the DataCamp question.
      - Jonathan: Emails routed into Zulip. Do we want that?
          - Mark: Zulip's spam filtering is non-existent. crates.io is another team that is handling this today.
      - Mara: Council shouldn't do work (in original goal). Let's try to delegate this perhaps? This task overlaps with social media: we already agreed to me answering questions on twitter+mastodon.
      - Carol: ZenDesk is what crates.io uses, with all the bells and whistles.
          - We can add a separate subgroup in that account for Council. But, we should have small set of folks taking ownership of it.
      - Eric Holk: Let's continue async, in a Zulip thread.
  - Foundation - how to develop expectations ([relevant Zulip topic](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Foundation.20-.20expectations)) (Mara)
    - Decide: Who is going to own this and what are the next steps?
    - Mara: People in the Project are often surprised by what the Foundation does. This is a little weird, given how much power the project has over the foundation. We need to start working on fixing that, who is leading that work? I've talked with Mark and Santiago some.
    - Mara: Should we consider appending this to the shape of the project survey?
    - Carol: Documenting & improving [...] -- this was a priority we decided on. Mark & Ryan were looking for help with that.
    - Mark: I don't think I should lead this. It's not likely to lead to good outcomes - my bandwidth is limited and it is likely to lead to similar outcomes, given that I've been an active participant in formation.
    - Carol: Santiago - are you willing to take this on? [in chat: Yes].
    - Jack: Let's try to start wrapping up.
    - Mara: Happy to let new PDs (Santiago) kick this off.
        - Jack: Mara -- can you own taking back learnings from the new PDs?
        - Mara: yes.
  - Foundation - director substitute for next board meeting (Mara)
    - Mara: Ryan is not available for next board meeting. He wants input from the council on a subsitute. Do we have opinions? So far only volunteer has been me.
    - Jack: No objections on my side.
    - Jack: Don't think we need a poll. No open objection, Ryan is the one with the authority.
    - Josh: Council doesn't technically have any authority.
- Call for clarifications (none)
- Turn off recording (done)
- Check-out
