# 2023-08-03

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- COI and Moderation Team (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 20 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide on public announcement?
    - **Goal**: Discuss how to resolve the COI.
    - **Goal**: Discuss if there is any support we can give for growing the moderation team.
    * Eric: Initial question: who/what is the COI? RFC does not address the specific circumstances here, with only one other member of the team available. Is there opportunity for growth that could also solve this problem?
    * Public announcement
        * Ryan: Let's inform Khio on what timeline we want to set. More about someone new joining.
        * Jonathan: Perhaps we can have a standard post that we write for all such situations.
        * JoshG: Khio is also stepping down from mod team. Probably ought to be simultaneous across multiple things...
            * Ryan: Moderation team increase now ought to be top priority.
    * Staffing mods
        * JoshG: No known volunteers at this time for new mods.
        * Mara: Recent application from Amos
            * Not followed up on.
    * Carol: Is there a need to say that we're not making decisions while the COI exists?
    * Mark: So, what is the COI?
        * JoshG: Futurewei
        * Mara: Is this a conflict?
            * JoshG: Maybe Jack?
        * Ryan: Let's figure this out async (read RFC, confirm COI, etc.)
    * Jonathan: We should have a formal declaration of interests (private)
    * Mara: Let's make sure to not accidentally publish.
    * Eric Huss: For now, Josh can avoid voting.
        * Carol: Which means that for this meeting we lack quorum.
    * Ryan: Who will own blog post?
        * Carol volunteers
    * Eric: How do we go about resolving the conflict, if it exists? Get N conflicting people together to talk?
        * Ryan: Sounds reasonable. Another option is to avoid representation from mods.
    * Eric: When and where do we continue discussion of growing mod team?
        * Ryan: I can own something soon
        * Mara: having only 1 mod feels like it ought to be a top priority, i.e., drop the rest of the agenda...
        * JoshG: Plus, council becomes un-moderatable too.
        * Ryan: I don't feel productive talking about it immediately.. but we should start immediately thereafter.
   * Jonathan: Let's reach out to Amos perhaps?
       * Josh: I can reach out to Amos
       * Jonathan: Let's also figure out if we can go to 3 and then down to 2.
- 2024 Edition (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Poll to check for any objections for an intent to have a 2024 edition and to form a working group.
    - **Goal**: Poll to check any objections to using an RFC to start this process. 
        - RFC is specifically to define just the intent to do a 2024 edition and to form a wg.
    - **Goal**: Any feedback on selecting wg members?
- Update on Foundation Director selection (*Ryan Levick* **Time**: 2 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Check in to make sure we are on track to start calling for candidates soon, and if there is anything that needs help.
- Librarians update (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Inform Council on activity, call for feedback.
    - **Info**: https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/ryDwGQdin
    - **Goal**: Call for feedback on publishing policy on the Forge: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/14#issuecomment-1638969288
        - Does this need wider Project feedback to implement since it isn't strictly internal?
- Social media: Expand to mastodon? (*Mara*, **Time**: 5 minutes)
   - Proposal: Approve infra+foundation setting up our own mastodon instance on rust-lang.org for @rustlang and @cratesiostatus. No change (for now) to how we use social media; tweets/posts just go to two platforms instead of one.
   - **Goal**: Decide to do this (before Twitter burns down completely).
   - (update from Carol) Adam Harvey (Foundation employee on crates.io) has already been doing work with the foundation to set up an unofficial mastodon instance; with Council's approval, we can just go straight to rust-lang.org. Delegation FTW!
- Official role for meeting coordinator/lead/chair (i.e., the person who arranges the meeting) (*Ryan*, **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: establish the role so that it can be more easily handed off when the (until now de-facto) coordinator is not available.
- Council <> Foundation Zulip stream (*Mark*, **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide to create a Zulip stream.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Minutes

Attendance: Carol, Jonathan, Ryan, Mark, Mara, Eric Huss, Josh Gould, Jack Huey (2nd half)
Unavailable: Eric Holk, Khio

- Assign roles
    * Scribe - Mark
    * Facilitator - Ryan
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - No announcements
- Consent to agenda
    - No objections
- COI and Moderation Team (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 20 Minutes)
    - **This topic is temporarily private, and will be recorded in the future once it is no longer private.**
- 2024 Edition (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Poll to check for any objections for an intent to have a 2024 edition and to form a working group.
    - **Goal**: Poll to check any objections to using an RFC to start this process. 
        - RFC is specifically to define just the intent to do a 2024 edition and to form a wg.
        * Ryan: If we can try to push on cadence in the RFC that would be great.
    - **Goal**: Any feedback on selecting wg members?
        * Mara: Last edition was Mara, Niko, Ryan, with mara+niko as leads. that pair of experienced+new worked well (with the relatively new person having more time). Can do that again, this time Mara+someone new.
    * Ryan: Who makes the decision here?
        * Eric Huss: Past decisions were made by Core.
    * Jonathan: What is the cost to new editions?
        * Mara: Broadly, lots of small code changes and increased amount of dialects of Rust. More importantly, this is work with a (~1 year) deadline which is unusual for the project.
    * No objections to creating a WG.
        * **Decision:** Mara to help form a WG that will write an RFC on this.
- Update on Foundation Director selection (*Ryan Levick* **Time**: 2 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Check in to make sure we are on track to start calling for candidates soon, and if there is anything that needs help.
    - Ryan: Draft document is ready in the subgroup. Ready for council eyes, will post a link and poke Council on Zulip.
    - Jonathan: Can we close out comments prior to asking for feedback or so?
        - Ryan: GitHub isn't great for text review but for now can look at rendered view.
- Librarians update (*Eric Huss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Inform Council on activity, call for feedback.
    - **Info**: https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/ryDwGQdin
    - **Goal**: Call for feedback on publishing policy on the Forge: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/14#issuecomment-1638969288
        - Does this need wider Project feedback to implement since it isn't strictly internal?
        - Ryan: I think we should just do it and ask for feedback. We can easily change where this lives with negative feedback.
        - **Decision:** let Eric go ahead with creation/movement here.
- Social media: Expand to mastodon? (*Mara*, **Time**: 5 minutes)
   - Proposal: Approve infra+foundation setting up our own mastodon instance on rust-lang.org for @rustlang and @cratesiostatus. No change (for now) to how we use social media; tweets/posts just go to two platforms instead of one.
   - **Goal**: Decide to do this (before Twitter burns down completely).
   - (update from Carol) Adam Harvey (Foundation employee on crates.io) has already been doing work with the foundation to set up an unofficial mastodon instance; with Council's approval, we can just go straight to rust-lang.org. Delegation FTW!
   - Mara: Any objections?
   - Ryan: No objections. Let's take any detail discussion offline.
   - Ryan: Permissions? Same for Twitter and Mastodon.
   - No objections. **Decision:** Mara will help coordinate.
- Official role for meeting coordinator/lead/chair (i.e., the person who arranges the meeting) (*Ryan*, **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: establish the role so that it can be more easily handed off when the (until now de-facto) coordinator is not available.
    - Ryan: Want to make sure this is an owned responsibility vs. hopefully someone owns it. Also makes it easy to transfer it to someone else temporarily or not.
    - Jack: Would encourage two people.
    - Jonathan: Let's consider alternative names, but let's not do it here.
    - Ryan: Any objections to "TBD role"? Also, any objections to me being on it?
        - Any volunteers for co-TBD: Jonathan
    - Jack: Let's write down the responsibilities etc.
    - Jonathan: Role resides with individual not the team delegate.
    - **Decision:** Agreed to write down the roles, who currently takes on those roles, along with an alternate.
- Council <> Foundation Zulip stream (*Mark*, **Time**: 5 minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide to create a Zulip stream.
    - Mark: There are some things that could benefit from a shared stream, like trademark
    - Jonathan: Might have misunderstood the role of the Project directors. Also, would be nice to have foundation share PR things before it happens, rather than just announcing it as it happens
    - Ryan: re: project director, exact role is not fully defined right now. In conjunction with project directors and staff and role -- until we have that fully defined it makes sense to have a direct communication channel.
    - Mara: Not just role of directors is unclear, but also relationship with council and general role of foundation. I've been waiting until after we get a new slate of directors to bring this up.
    - **Decision:** Mark to create a private channel and add staff and council.
- Call for clarifications
    - Announcement: look at PR for meeting observers please.
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
