# 2023-10-27

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
- Announcements
  - Executive Director feedback due today
- Old business
  - Social Media / Mastodon
  - Growing moderation team?
  - Regular meeting cadence/schedule - does this time work? Every week, 2 weeks, month?
  - Meeting observers: Status of https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/19
      - Is this blocking? https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/19#discussion_r1300400861
- New business
  - Edition team membership
  - Quick team updates
  - Team repo access (https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Who.20merges.20team.20PRs.3F)
  - How can we start helping teams mesh better? (identify first action items)
  - Team merging of Release and Infra
  - Affiliation limits
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Carol, Eric Huss, Eric Holk, JP, Mara, Jack, JoshG, Ryan, Mark

## Minutes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Carol facilitates
    - Eric and Eric scribe
- Turn on recording
    - Did not record, by consent
- Consent to agenda
    - added affiliation limits item and edition team membership item
- Announcements
  - Executive Director feedback due today
      - Feedback is a soft deadline, try to do it today but use the weekend if needed.
- Old business
  - Social Media / Mastodon (*Mara*)
      - Mara: we have a mastodon account! Mirroring Twitter for now. Some requests to be more active on Twitter, like replying to replies.
      - Jack: fine with giving Mara wide latitude to do what's reasonable. Maybe make it more formal in the future
      - eholk: Risk around speaking for the project. Responding needs quick turnaround, so a heavy process might be difficult. Prefer lightweight, quick processes.
      - Ryan: There was a small branding guide, like "don't bash other languages" and "talk about technical content only."
      - Jonathan: Account represents the whole project, not just the Council. Maybe we need a project wide team with wide latitude and Council can exercise oversight.
      - Carol: Proposal - Mara writes up guidelines. We can trust her to know when something is potentially controversial and needs more input.
      - Josh: Question for Mara, are you okay being the public face of Rust PR?
      - Mara: My private account accidentally became semi-official, having an official account addresses that. Not talking about managing social media response during drama, but simple requests to retweet things, etc.
      - Josh: Having more than just Mara would be useful, especially if drama happens
      - Mara: Yes, I want a team, but for now the team is me. Want to take incremental steps.
      - **Conclusion**: Mara to propose updates to Twitter guidelines in Rust Forge. https://forge.rust-lang.org/platforms/twitter.html
      - Mara: Can I go ahead with following the guidelines as they are now?
      - Eric Holk: The project agreed on these at one point, so it's fine to use them for now.
      - Jack: Seconded.
      - Carol: I don't want to approve anything I haven't read.
      - **Conclusion**: Everyone to read doc and approve in public Zulip poll
  - Growing moderation team? (*Mara*)
      - Jonathan: What can the Council do to help?
      - Josh: Do any of you want to be moderators? Project-wide communication would help. Better to have project members than outsiders due to trust issues.
      - Mara: Is there a job description for the moderation role? It seems like there are different tasks. Basic cases can be easy to take care of and doesn't need as much trust.
      - Josh: Venue mods cover obvious bad behavior. The need is more for people that can take on the bigger issues that require more context and trust. Looking for venue mods too, but we have more there.
      - Eric Holk: Soliciting for mods in a fashion similar to the PD elections. That got a surprising number of candidates, and we could select that in a similar fashion.
      - Jack: E-mail to all@ would be a good next step. Maybe highlight that there are really two moderation roles and emphasize that help on either is wanted.
      - Mara: Hybrid solution, send e-mail to all@, but specifically ask people for nominations even if they aren't interested.
      - Carol: Mara, will you draft this?
      - Mara: Should the Mod team or Council be driving this?
      - Josh: I'm happy to draft something, but might take some time
      - Carol: would you like help? Would Mara or someone else be willing to help?
      - Mara: I can help
      - **Action items**:
          - Josh to draft email to all@
  - Regular meeting cadence/schedule - does this time work? Every week, 2 weeks, month?
      - Carol: Proposal - could we make this slot work every other week?
      - Jonathan: Yes, but need to clarify timezone because US is going off DST soon.
      - Carol: Doesn't everyone change by the next meeting?
      - Eric Holk: This works for me. DST should probably have an answer for the future changes. Prefers whatever option that is not 7:30 in the morning during that 2 week period, which would put it in US time, which is unfortunately later for Europe times.
      - Carol: Propose vacation during the shift.
      - Jonathan: Everyone misses meetings that week anyway because they always get the times wrong.
      - **Conclusion**: Meet this time, every two weeks, no meetings during DST weirdness, Mark to send out invites with Meet link.
  - Meeting observers: Status of https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/19?
      - Jack: Is this blocking? https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/19#discussion_r1300400861
      - Jack: Initially lets keep things as just observing, but open to expanding in the future.
      - Mara: Not realistic to pretend someone isn't not there if they are the experts and we're all confidently wrong.
      - Jack: Maybe add language that sometimes observers may be invited to join the discussion? Should be clear what's an observer and what's not.
      - Carol: Details about what happens in the meeting is up to council members in the meeting. If observers raise their hand, it's up to the council whether to call on them.
      - Jack: Action item, I'll update the doc to mention difference between observers and invited attendees, observer involvement is up to the council. Does that address your objection Mara?
      - Mara: Yeah. We can also invite an observer to become an invited expert on the spot if needed.
      - Jonathan: Observers and Guests
      - Carol: Is this possible to finish in time for next meeting?
      - Jack: Yes, as long as no one objects to the change.
      - Josh: We're getting towards the end of the year, so availability might be limited.
      - **Action Items**: Jack to update PR and try to close this out by next meeting
- New business
  - Edition team membership (ehuss)
      - Eric Huss: Want approval for bstrie, Mara, and maybe me for edition team.
      - Mara: We should have two team leads. This is an important task and it sends the wrong message if we leave that up to a single person.
      - Jack: Let's approve the team and the team can decide leads and who's in the group. I'm happy with any two of those three as leads.
      - Carol: Do Mara or Eric Huss want to commit to being co-lead now.
      - Eric Huss: I can do it.
      - **Conclusion**: Eric Huss and bstrie are co-leads, open to other members joining.
  - Team repo access (https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Who.20merges.20team.20PRs.3F)
      - Jack: Is everyone okay with me getting team repo merge permission to help keep the PR latency down? Bigger questions long term, but any progress is good.
      - Mara: Used to the whole Core team had lots of latitude here, but we don't want that for the Council. Maybe we need a keyholders team. This used to be T-infra, but that's probably not the right team. This should be an actual team listed on the website.
      - Eric Huss: What's the actual concern? Most merges happen in 1-3 days.
      - Jack: I've seen PRs sit open for a couple weeks. I raised the issue a few months ago, multiple people brought this up to me at EuroRust so I felt it was important to raise it here. Shouldn't be just Mark and Ryan's job, expanding this is good.
      - Carol: Any objections to adding Jack?
      - Mara: This should be a team, not a permission added to an individual.
      - Eric Huss: Approval should be contingent on Mark (Mark had to drop early from the meeting).
      - Jack: I can work on formalizing this
      - **Action Item**: Jack to discuss with Mark and make a proposal for another round of approval.
- Time check: Out of time
    - Carol to create Zulip threads for remaining items.
- Call for clarifications
    - None raised
- Turn off recording
    - Not recording
- Check-out
