# 2023-07-20

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
- Announcements
- Meeting observers (*Jack*, 15 minutes)
    - **Previous Discussions**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Observing.20meetings.3F) and [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Meeting.20observers)
    - **Proposal document**: [[HackMD]](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/HkQfs2l9n)
    - **Goal**: *Discuss* the proposal document and *decide* whether or not, and using what process, to accept meeting observers.
- Backlog issue tracking (*Eric Huss*, 10 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Backlog.20issue.20tracking)
    - **Proposal**: [[GitHub]](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/10#issuecomment-1622489609)
    - **Goal**: *Discuss* any potential blocking concerns before the librarian team implements
- Project Directors election process proposal (*Eric Holk*, 20 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/394329-council.2Fproject-director-election-proposal)
    - **Proposal**: [[GitHub]](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/12)
    - **Goal**: *Inform* the Council of the proposal and gather any initial feedback before approval moves to async.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out


## Minutes

Attendees: Eric Holk, Ryan Levick, Mara, Eric Huss, Jonathan, Mark, Jack, Carol
Missing: Khio

- Assign roles
    - Facilitator: Ryan, Notes: Carol + Eric Holk
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
    - No objections
- Announcements
    - Ryan: Khio is out, Mark might have to drop, RFC allows for consent of N-2, we can choose to have consent be higher for decisions
- Meeting observers (*Jack*, 15 minutes)
    - **Previous Discussions**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Observing.20meetings.3F) and [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Meeting.20observers)
    - **Proposal document**: [[HackMD]](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/HkQfs2l9n)
    - **Goal**: *Discuss* the proposal document and *decide* whether or not, and using what process, to accept meeting observers.
    - Jack: Are there questions or clarifications needed?
    - Ryan: Why not start with project members in good standing automatically approved for observing, with the link requested at least ~5 min before meeting? Then revisit after about a month's time?
    - Jack: Seconded, after discussion, being conservative seems prudent and adjusting further later
    - Jonathan: How do we know if someone is a team member? Via zulip rather than email seems good. Team members seems like a good first step. 
    - Ryan: This is a bigger question, what the project is. For purposes of the council, if you're on the "all" team in the team repo. This is what we used for the governance RFC.
    - Jonathan: Yes, that sounds good. Requesting access is good to prevent meeting crashers; Google meet doesn't have much moderation control or a good way to identify joiners.
    - Mara: Do we want to have a limit on the number of observers? What if 50 people want to come observe an important topic?
    - Ryan: I'm not sure! Would be interested to find out how I'd feel; hard to tell before it happens. 
    - Jack: No objections to no limits, conditioned on everything else on proposal being the same: no interactions, no video of observers. Otherwise could be unwieldy.
    - Jonathan: Hoping that attendees would be mostly invisible. No objections to no limits.
    - Ryan: Anyone else have thoughts?
    - Mara: sounds good, as long as observers don't make recordings
    - Eric Holk: Discussion over last few days has me questioning; what will observation of sync meetings do? Will it actually build trust? Benefits might be modeling what we hope of from the rest of the project.
    - Carol: Good with this proposal. Approve any team members and let them observe is a good starting point. Share skepticism, "we can observe, how do we know you're not having secret meetings."
    - Mark: Can we put a time bound on re-evaluating this policy?
    - Jack: Want to validate Eric Holk's thoughts. Zulip discussion has given me pause. Scaling back to team members is good. Time bound is good.
    - Ryan: At time for this topic, quick comments
    - Eric Holk: Conservative in that it's not anyone; but more open because project members don't have to justify observation. Google meet's limit is somewhere less than 200 participants.
    - Jonathan: Time bound should be number of meetings rather than calendar days since meetings have been irregular.
    - Ryan: Action item is Jack revise the proposal to team members are approved. Will take to async for approval.
- Backlog issue tracking (*Eric Huss*, 10 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Backlog.20issue.20tracking)
    - **Proposal**: [[GitHub]](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/10#issuecomment-1622489609)
    - **Goal**: *Discuss* any potential blocking concerns before the librarian team implements
    - Eric Huss: Overview of proposal: Use GitHub issues to track existing tasks and accept requests. Procedures discuss triage. Questions/concerns?
    - Jack: Seems good. Any cases where this wouldn't be enough? Any known limitations?
    - Eric Huss: Not the biggest fan of GitHub. Discussions and threading in issues isn't ideal. Possibility is to use GitHub Discussion, which does have threading. No built-in support for deadlines. Requires diligence by people to do triage, which isn't fun. Have to put in work to keep issues up-to-date. We could use someone to act as project manager, do we have people with that desire?
    - Ryan: Most people are familiar with GitHub issues, which is good. GitHub Projects help with some of the project management tasks; people are less familiar with that. Regarding getting people to help: Compiler team has thousands of issues but is still manageable because of the work of the triage team. Could we ask for volunteers from the rest of the project? Leadership Council can set priorities, but triage team could manage assignments, spam, duplicates.
    - Eric Holk: Agreed; triage team/committee/subcommittee sounds good
    - Jonathan: Ryan, are your thoughts blockers to the proposal?
    - Ryan: No, didn't mean to be a blocker. What does everyone else think? Would like ongoing feedback from the rest of the team
    - Eric Holk: Sounds good, take this and run with it. I'm not great at looking at searches/labels, but would respond to pings if I'm needed. More formal triage team sounds good but shouldn't block on progress.
    - Ryan: Sounds good. Should we start with simplifying the labels in the proposals? Maybe the priority labels are too complex? Start with "urgent" and "not urgent" and start working to see what we need?
    - Ryan: Any other comments? No. To summarize, council generally approves of the progress, would like regular updates on progress to have opportunites for feedback.
- Project Directors election process proposal (*Eric Holk*, 20 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/394329-council.2Fproject-director-election-proposal)
    - **Proposal**: [[GitHub]](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/12)
    - **Goal**: *Inform* the Council of the proposal and gather any initial feedback before approval moves to async.
    - Eric Holk: Very close to having Eric, Ryan, Jane being happy with it; then will go to async consensus. Would be good to have concerns raised in the next week or week and a half, given our timeline for executing the process. Summary of proposal: We want to pick project directors in an efficient amount of time, want to get input from the project, bring new people in, opportunites for growth, need to be consistent with Foundation bylaws. Process has 2 phases (doc currently has 3 phases, setup + 1 and 2). Setup: Pick a facillitator (either Eric Holk or Ryan), owner of driving the process. Planning on keeping the committee that created this process standing to help this first execution and write up retrospective evaluating it after. Proposal contains role description of a project director that's high level but nebulous; can refine this over time, but people are executing this nebulous role now. Gather nominations from each top-level Rust team. Each leadership council rep asks their team, who uses some process to come up with nominees, recommending using election meeting process to come up with nominees.
    - Jonathan: Is the election meeting an extraordinary meeting or a regular meeting, and how does our observer process intersect?
    - Eric Holk: Was thinking a regular item in a regular meeting; seems like observers should be fine; process should be open in general. Can always close meeting if needed.
    - Mara: Seems tricky to have observers because this is about individual people; raising objections to someone would be tricky. Even mentioning there are objections can be a problem. What about conflict of interest, if a leadership council member is a nominee?
    - Eric Holk: Good point, haven't worked either private objections or conflicts of interest out yet. Some objections can be public, hopefully, such as time constraints or experience levels. Can see that more personal objections should be private
    - Mara: Mod team should be in this process to screen people based on incidents they're aware of; at what point? Some concerns like "that person might not be a great representative of the community"
    - Eric Holk: Would like to provide feedback in situations where possible; don't want to prevent people from raising objections due to wanting to avoid giving the people feedback. Khio as the representative to the mods should consent based on moderation experience
    - Ryan: Giving feedback in general is difficult because of the volunteer nature of the project; people feel less obligated to hear feedback than they might in a job situation.
    - Eric Holk: Ask people in the community to send feedback privately about nominees.
    - Mara: Yeah private feedback definitely can't be public or appear in notes.
    - Eric Holk: Becoming more convinced the election meeting should be a closed meeting.
    - Jonathan: Maybe private round should happen first, then have a round in the open to say positive things about selected nominees?
    - Eric Holk: Would be nice to announce selections, considered people, why the selections were made, constructive feedback for people not selected
    - Mara: This might be like a job interview; should provide similar private feedback
    - Eric Holk: Yeah, public announcement of selections, private feedback to each individual
    - Carol: This discussion is assuming we will be getting more people interested than we have slots for, and I'm more concerned that we won't have enough people for these slots.
    - Eric Holk: Hope that we get exactly the number of nominees that we need; would make it easy! Needs to be a project member, but doesn't have to be from your own team. Don't have to nominate anyone; can nominate more people than seats.
    - Ryan: Nominees don't have to consent to being nominated at first. I had a concern about this at first, but now I like it. It's a way to show support for people who might not think themselves qualified and wouldn't self-nominate.
    - Eric Holk: A nomination isn't just a name, but a name plus a reason. I didn't consider being on leadership council, but someone else thought I would be good, and I came around to the idea.
    - Mara: I like the idea of nominating people without their consent, but when should we get consent? Extending an invitation publicly and then getting a rejection wouldn't be great.
    - Eric Holk: Will make sure the proposal includes specification of when asking people if they're willing happens-- somewhere around when nominee list is made public, before selections are made
    - Jonathan: Yeah not great if someone rejects invitation, then have to go to losers and re-ask. 7 min left.
    - Eric Holk: Hopefully committee will be ready with PR soon; then will have an async round of consent with full council.
    - Ryan: Large contingent of community is in favor of familiar democratic electoral processes; how can we explain our choice of process along with the results of the process?
    - Eric Holk: PR description explains why we didn't choose voting (it doesn't match the goals of the selection process); feedback could be that community didn't vote for the goals. Overall, consent-based processes are more in line with Rust's values.
    - Ryan: Tried to keep the job description high-level so that conversation doesn't turn into "what do the project directors do exactly" which is still something we're iterating on, not set in stone
    - Eric Holk: Job description as-is sounds good. Motion to close the meeting
- Call for clarifications
    - None
- Turn off recording
- Check-out