# 2023-07-13

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
- Announcements
- Revisit frequency of meetings (*Ryan*, 5 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Frequency.20of.20meetings)
    - **Goal**: *Decide* what cadence the Council should meet at and when the next time this question should be revisited.
- Updates from the existing committees
    - Project Director Elections (*Eric Holk*, 5 Minutes)
    - Librarians (*Eric Huss*, 5 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: *Inform* the Council on the latest status
- Discussion on top 3 most urgent items/areas of concern (*Ryan*, 25 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/High-level.20work.20items.2Fpossible.20subcommittees)
    - **Goal**: Answer "what are the 1-3 most urgent items we should assign some sort of ownership to?" and assign at least 2 people to each to determine what next steps are.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Minutes

Attendance: all

- Assign roles
    - Ryan will facilitate
    - Mark will scribe
- Consent to agenda
  - No objections.
- Announcements
    - Mara: Twitter access is now fixed/resolved
    - Khio: #foundation conversations do not necessarily need active council attention; mods are taking a look as needed.
    - Jonathan: Please check [open PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pulls) and tick boxes / review as needed.
    - Ryan: A small +1 or similar presence indicator to affirm agenda prior to meeting would be desirable.
- Revisit frequency of meetings (*Ryan*, 5 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Frequency.20of.20meetings)
    - **Goal**: *Decide* what cadence the Council should meet at and when the next time this question should be revisited.
    - Ryan: Proposal: Meet at 1/week until next month?
    - Jonathan: Alternative: Every other week for twice as long (2 hours)?
        - Khio: I like the idea of fewer meetings, especially at this time.
    - Eric: I don't see any problem with the alternative but a 2 hour slot seems potentially impossible to identify.
    - Khio: A 2 hour block seems like it could be productive.
    - Ryan: Let's try to see if there are two hour blocks?
    - Mark: Scheduling <1 week out for 2 hours is much harder than 1 month+ out.
    - Action item: Khio will send out a pair of lettucemeets for at least 1 month out for 2 hours, and one for immediate future.
- Updates from the existing committees
    - Project Director Elections (*Eric Holk*, 5 Minutes)
        - Eric Holk: Goal is as early as next week circling back with a proposal for the council. I've published on my own blog a discussion (but definitely my thoughts there, not others): https://theincredibleholk.org/blog/2023/07/11/how-to-elect-rust-project-directors/
    - Librarians (*Eric Huss*, 5 Minutes)
        - Update: https://hackmd.io/y1-ROXE_SgSfnj_-sluHyQ
        - Eric Huss: Posted a link to a hackmd in the agenda. A few active initiatives in flight and pending.
    - **Goal**: *Inform* the Council on the latest status
- Discussion on top 3 most urgent items/areas of concern (*Ryan*,  Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/High-level.20work.20items.2Fpossible.20subcommittees)
    - **Goal**: Answer "what are the 1-3 most urgent items we should assign some sort of ownership to?" and assign at least 2 people to each to determine what next steps are.
    - Ryan: Some struggle on identifying these and moving ahead here. List is long and a little unwieldy: https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/Skdo7VKK3
    - Ryan: Temptation of making a perfect form seems difficult or impossible to accomplish. Haven't yet pushed on grouping, seems difficult to accomplish.
    - Ryan: My starting point for the discussion is in the Zulip:
        - Documenting and improving processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation including formalising the role of project directors in this process
        - Establish what the boundaries of “project membership” are (i.e., finally answer the question of “what groups and thus which people are in the Rust Project?”) as well as organizing existing teams within Rust, and ensuring all teams and other governance structures are “attached” to appropriate places in the structure.
        - Establishing plans for how to strengthen the moderation team (i.e., 2 is not a sustainable number) and strengthen moderation policies
    - Round for all members to raise alternatives/concerns/etc.
        - Carol: A little concerned about deciding without necessarily pulling in broader feedback from broader community. Maybe this is something we should be circling to teams about? Maybe it belongs in the blog post as a call to action for folks to provide input?
            - Ryan: Do you feel coming to the community with an initial proposal makes sense?
            - Carol: Yes, that makes sense to me, will help structure discussion.
        - Jonathan: The foundation + moderation team items feel good. However, launching pad is talking about this already and it's not clear that this is a quick item due to number of people involved, may not fit well in this list.
        - Eric Holk: These feel urgent and important, certainly in top 10 list. Not yet clear on how to order in that set though. Perhaps not necessarily saying this is top 3, but rather just that we want to start X items now and then reevaluate as we make progress.
        - Ryan: Figuring out membership boundaries -- a little surprised this is overlappy in your mind with launching pad, since Rust project membership is outside/larger than just launching pad. However digging deeper on launching pad scope/role seems worthwhile to help crystallize this. A little frustrated that we seem to not be able to get started on things, keep pushing things into other venues (async etc), because our processes for that are not effective yet. Making something happen seems better than putting lots of effort into making a perfect decision.
        - Khio: Moderator item -- perhaps most critical is the existence of contingent mods.
        - Jonathan: re:membership, launching pad discussions are necessary but not sufficient. Perhaps async process improvements are more critical?
        - Jack Huey: Lots of ways today on trying to tackle async process and things are getting missed as a result. Crystallizing on summary accompanying a decision, and identifying things that need to be put into a sync discussion. This seems more important than membership boundaries and moderation team health. Raising concerns/objections outside this group to make those decisions async or otherwise inclusive also seems good. Committee definitions also feel insufficiently crystallized today into concrete terms.
        - Eric Holk: Frustration makes sense. Hard problem, but perhaps we can speed up. Mod team health feels very important and very urgent; key thing to fix soon. Want to be helping push on this, even if not necessarily doing all of the defining ourselves (feels like mod scope). Async processes feels in the short term list to help us move faster without blocking on synchronous time.
        - Mark: Want to raise that Foundation item feels like it might be best replaced with a focus on the trademark group, if we feel that is urgent.
        - Mara: Foundation seems to not feel trademark is super urgent, so perhaps not worth prioritizing that first. Foundation relationship is top of my list. Contingent mods also on there. Categorization of decision making to crystallize on what we need what kind of consent to. Last fourth item is input from the project members. Perhaps the input we need now is input on this very list, like carol suggested.
        - Eric Huss: Transparency outwards from the Council feels important. Keeping an eye on things that have deadlines seems important; for example, council rotation is coming up not too far out. On soliciting feedback, I also am in favor of doing this from my team, but I think we're not yet crystallizing on something solid to present to folks.
        - Ryan: It is critical that we identify concrete value deliverables, not just spin on defining process. Core struggled a lot with this, want to avoid repeating those mistakes and try to make sure we also give value back to the project/community.
        - Khio: Would prefer to not see the Trademark issue be deprioritized, since it has gotten a lot of public attention.
        - Khio: I agree on Ryan's process concerns, also we should be picking on low-hanging fruit, let's start making progress on a few of these.
        - Mara: re:trademark - my feeling is that the Foundation can publish 'this is on hold pending council relationship', not need to spin up a group.
            - Khio: Makes sense
    - Ryan: First proposal: Figuring out async process - who has energy/space for this?
        - Khio, Eric Huss volunteered.
        - Eric Huss: Would love feedback on the async process we have today to drive improvement on decisions.
        - Jack: Can we put a timeline on this?
            - Ryan: Check-in with active groups on a weekly basis in our regular meeting.
    - Ryan: Wider feedback desired on things we are missing. We don't want to bring 300 items to the project, but some curation and presentation needed. Who can put together a proposal for this list/presentation of it?
        - Carol volunteering - I think it makes sense to integrate into next blog post.
        - Eric Holk - will be helping with blog post, want to start on that.
    - Eric Holk: Would also propose we start thinking about mod team. Maybe will sync with Khio on this.
- Call for clarifications
    - Jonathan: Will post in Zulip on a tool I think we might want to use.
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
