# 2023-12-08

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Triage issues (with time remaining)
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Council: Mark, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, Jonathan Pallant, Josh Gould, Ryan Levick

Observers: TC

## Notes

* Assign roles
    * Facilitator: Eric Holk
* (Meta: decide agenda)
    * Technically at quorum but trying to avoid decisions.
    * Mara and Carol gave apologies
* Check in
* Start recording
* Trademark status
    * Jonathan: What are we looking to deliver to the Foundation?
    * Ryan (with PD hat): Foundation goal is to establish common ground on problem space. Treat it as best attempt of why we should do work in this area. *How* to move forward (what policy, etc.) isn't yet being worked on. This is in effect going back to square 0 with lessons learned over the previous attempt.
    * Ryan: High order bit is an argument for why we should update our policy, and motivated by assuming that we do want an update, elaborating on why we would want to update the policy. As a council we should be looking to understand the risks and mitigations available at this stage. In the future as we explore the actual drafting of a new policy, we should keep in mind there are legal difficulties with being very open with aspects of it.
    * Josh: How many of us actually know what is in current policy? Should we go off and read both the document and current policy before we form opinions?
    * Eric Holk: Let's put this on the agenda for the next meeting, with homework until then for reading etc.
    * Jack: Why can't the policy be drafted publicly?
    * Ryan: off the record
* (eric) Docker email response
    * **Goal** Just get someone to respond
    * Eric Huss: Not sure what to say. The dockerhub repository is not managed by a formal team, it's just an individual.
    * Eric Holk: We should find an owner. Release team, perhaps?
    * Jonathan: Shape of the project discussion, perhaps? Repositories not belonging to a team seem problematic -- chain to the Council would be best.
    * Mark: Expansion of scope for release team - would prefer to avoid scope increase.
    * Jonathan: Seems like this is branded as an official image.
    * Eric Huss: Looking to take us back to the main point -- what should this person do?
    * Eric Holk: I think we're trying to find an owner for this. Maybe we can look at the people who've recently reviewed PRs.
    * Eric Huss: Lots of respositories might have ignored PRs. Not clear what we should do.
    * Josh: Context-dependent what the answer should be. In the specific case it's not fully clear what the officialness of it is.
    * Eric Holk: This is under the rust-lang org, that means it's absolutely an official Rust lang repo. We should find an owner or move the repo if we don't want to own it.
    * Jack: Added 6 years ago -- seems like sfackler has been only one touching it. Seems like either infra or release, not clear who should own it.
    * Josh: We should try to figure out who uses this, or why we have this. Maybe should try to avoid it being official.
    * Eric Huss: This is a widely used image (many people consume this in their Docker builds), so it's important. But maybe the architecture of the Rust org handling this project isn't quite the right discussion right now.
    * Jack: Specific case -- maybe just post on Zulip, asking if someone is interested in helping review this PR? Maybe reach out to sfackler.
    * Eric Huss: Seems OK to reach out to sfackler. But it's not clear that we want to make the Council a way to escalate ignored PRs. This repo requires high trust.
    * Jack: Who owns the keys to the Rust dockerhub? We can say we've reached out but they should just wait.
    * Mark: I believe infra has access, but not confident.
    * Jonathan: This is best effort today. We don't have bandwidth. I can write up a response.
    * Ryan: I think the best thing may be to not respond.
    * Jack: I see the reasoning, but I think we should respond somehow.
    * Eric Holk: I agree, we should respond, the effort seems to be good-faith. The best-effort response suggested by Jonathan makes sense to me. But, also not something where we escalate to e.g. poking sfackler or similar.
    * Eric Holk: But, also isn't good that the repo isn't clearly placed in the org.
    * Eric Holk: Do we want an async poll?
        * Yes.
        * Jack: Any objection to a draft that we async put to a vote?
            * No.
    * Will discuss async.
* (Ryan) Update on initiatives
    * Goal: Any meaningful updates? Any goals for the end of the year?
    * Mod team (Josh)
    * Foundation relationship (PDs, ???)
    * Shape of project (Eric Huss)
    * Ryan: Maybe we can say that we're interested if we're not actively working.
        * Jack: I like pushing on things. We had a council schedule doc... seems like we might be missing doing things on that list?
        * Eric Huss: I think it is useful. But we just haven't materialized next steps just yet -- but things are in-progress.
    * Eric Holk: Project director elections update. Last remaining piece is retrospective, there's a PR out with current notes. Would like to put a PR out with straightforward updates to the process, maybe we can talk about that with January.
    * Josh: We sent out an email to all@. Added one person to venue mods as a result, but not adding more people to mod team just yet.
    * Jack: Edition/Foundation hiring.
        * bstrie@ and ehuss -- Carol has emailed out a query but hasn't seen a response.
        * Eric Huss: This is in-flight (pending thought).
    * Jack: Small announcement, infra <> release RFC has been FCPd, pending checkboxes.
    * Eric Holk: Working with Mara on project affiliation limits.
        * No updates here yet.
* Triage issues (with time remaining)
    * Skipped for time
* Clarifications?
* Stop recording
* Check out

