# 2024-06-21

## Attendance

- Council: Josh, Mark, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, James Munns, Jack Huey
- Observers: TC, Santiago
- Apologies: Mara (RustFest Zurich)

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Jack Huey will facilitate
    - Mark will minutes
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - No announcements
- Consent to agenda
    - Consented
- Agenda items
    - [NEW] Approve survey (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Approval to start survey at https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/pull/263
        - Ryan made some comments of questions to add
        - Eric Huss wants to keep it simple as possible
        - Jack H. okay with proposed questions
        - Eric Huss will add proposed questions, get it merged
        - Jack H.: What is the process?
            - Eric Huss: Idk! Will make sure we get the survey sent out to all@
            - Manual process to send out link
            - Could also just drop in Zulip>General
            - Not concerned re "non-member feedback"
        - Josh G.: Are we only considering feedback from project members?
            - Eric Huss: Since anonymous, can't really filter
            - Ask nicely in comments to only be project members?
            - Not scientific
        - Jack H.: Seconded to "ok if on general"
        - Eric H.:
            - Mid-bad case: non-member but still active folks comment
            - bad-bad case: brigading, we be more careful next time
    - [OLD] Edition update (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Inform status update
        - Eric Huss + TC - status update
            - 3x 100%
            - 4x waiting stabilization
            - 4x need docs+migration
            - 4x Partially finished and active
            - 6x Heavy development, long way to go, making progress (risk)
                - ex: New Range Types (risky, might not make it)
            - 8+ things for Rustfmt: Unsure of status
            - 1x Dropped out of edition
        - Might be the biggest edition update!
        - Eric Huss invites TC:
            - Two goals: Make a success, don't require heroics
            - Happy with progress wrt goals so far (+1)
            - Good comms from item owners
            - Good collab with Eric Huss
    - [OLD] trademark update?
        - No name or goal, who added? Any volunteers? (Maybe Eric Huss)
        - Felt important that got dropped
        - Bec 6 weeks ago: not a lot of feedback
        - Eric Holk: Jonathan + Mara were driving this
            - Mara not here, Jonathan not on council
            - Make sure we have owners
        - Jack H.: Put this on the agenda for next week, prepare for it
        - James: Private or public
        - Jack H.: Private for now - Already a thread, might predate James
        - Agenda for next time
    - [NEW] James quick discussion of Launchpad + "Advocacy Team" idea (James Munns **Time**: 5-10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Share discussion, get initial feedback
        - James: Had discussion on some options with Jack. Proposed dedicated "interest/advocacy" groups that would be specifically focused on giving small-ish groups for the Project teams to consult with when making decisions. Planning to prepare some writing in this area soon.
        - Jack: One aspect that's not yet clear is how this fits into Project structure (top-level team or what etc).
        - Eric Holk: Special Interest Groups was a previous name in this area (from Jonathan). I like the idea of groups we can reach out to for this purpose.
        - James: +1, figuring out how to hear the voices in an effective way is a key need.
        - Jack: ping groups of thousands of people is not effective, but in some ways a similar purpose.
        - Josh: This is a smallish group of people who can speak authoritatively on behalf of a constituency, right?
        - James: Self-identifying or otherwise nominating folks who can speak authoritatively would be useful, having that subset is critical for a good relationship here.
        - Mark: Parallel with Security Critical Consortium under the Foundation
            - Balancing the structure of "official groups (e.g. companies)" and "general community (e.g. individuals)"
            - Could consider hosting the groups under the Foundation, in part to make it easier to balance perception of companies joining these groups (vs. project "teams" not having companies as members).
        - Jack: No strong opinion about project thing vs foundation thing
            - We need a way for teams to give/get feedback reliably
        - James: Good point re: mark and the foundation consortiums as a parallel
    - [NEW] Issue Review/Triage (Eric Holk **Time**: remaining time, if there is any)
        - Meta discussion: Is this a good thing to do during meetings?
            - James: embedded working group has some operational part of meetings; could be good
            - Mark: This is maybe a good place to be intentional to focus on:
                - Lightweight as possible
                - Clear as possible
                - Have other people drive progress (ask them to poll?)
            - Eric Holk:
                - Council is not supposed to be doing work ourselves
                - Not always successful, easier to do than delegate sometimes
                - Ideal outcome: "Do, Delegate, Discard"? (name from James)
                    - Time/Urgency factors into this
                - Meetings go through list of items on the docket, async or sync?
            - Eric Huss:
                - Worth going through these issues to make sure we have common understanding
            - Eric Holk:
                - +1 to having common understanding
                - Honesty: "we said is urgent, didn't work on for 6w, adjust what we say/reality"
            - Jack H.:
                - In general good to review stuff we have accepted
                - Meetings seem like a place to do it, "otherwise it won't be done"
                - A lot of time, meetings end up taking the whole time reacting to most recent pings
                - What's the right time tradeoff here?
                - Goal first 5m to talk about a thing?
            - Eric Holk:
                - Like the way that meetings are structured now
                - Keep project board small
                - Aim to prevent the "read never" part of the todo list
            - James:
                - Intentional agenda item is useful
            - Jack:
                - Someone has to own putting stuff on the agenda
                - We are all very busy
                - Think about formalizing the process
            - Eric Holk:
                - Like the idea of "empty agenda means triage meeting"
                - Other teams have alternate between triage + discussion meeting
                - If we have "list of things we are working on", easier to make an agenda
                - Rely on tooling for Pick N items?
            - Jack:
                - Tangential: Staff team has been brought up
                - Having someone to help us stay organized?
                - Put this discussion in context: can we help us help us?
            - Eric Holk:
                - Could be a great thing for a staff person
                - Concrete proposal:
                    - Eric Holk owns it:
                    - Create a GH project with categories
                    - Populate that
            - James:
                - Needs to be integral to the process to make it work
                - +1 to doing it
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
