# 2024-02-16

## Attendance

Council: Carol, JP, Mark, Mara, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey
Observers: TC, Santiago, Ryan, Niko

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Carol facilitating, Mark taking notes
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Old business
    - Confirm kickoff of March representative selections (*ehuss* **Time**: 2 minutes)
        - **Goal** Get agreement to kick off on Monday Feb 19, with aim to be finished towards the end of March (aim for people to be ready for March 29).
        - Eric Holk: What is the precise timeline?
        - Eric Huss: 29th is a council meeting. March 22nd is the current deadline.
        - Jonathan: What, if any, is the default process recommendation?
        - Eric Huss: No answer as of yet. Not sure we can get more specific than each team figuring it out.
        - Eric Holk: For compiler, expectation is full process again (e.g., seek volunteers, do full rounds, etc).
        - Eric Holk: Perhaps inspiration from project director selection process.
        - Carol: Can we get teams to write down what they do?
        - Jonathan: That sounds like a good idea.
        - Carol: Agreement for kick off on Monday?
        - ** no objections, moving ahead with this **
    - Foundation funding (*Carol* **Time**: 15 minutes)
        - **Goal** Brainstorm on what next steps to take.
        - **Previous discussion**: [How are we going to make decisions about how to spend money in the future?](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/65)
        - What are our goals?
        - What processes are possible?
        - Who is interested in writing up proposals of processes?
        - Carol: My goal is that N people can then go off and write down proposals for what process we could use.
        - Mark: Are we comfortable with every Rust team having Foundation employed people on it?
        - Carol: Are we putting the list together, or soliciting proposals from other people and then ordering it?
        - Eric Holk: I like the idea of putting something out. I don't know what we should spend the money on. Best idea I have today is "go put this back into the grants program". But, asking the project seems like a good idea to find new opportunities.
        - Santiago: What are our "strategic priorities"?
        - Carol: We'd need to justify a decision to (1) Wider community (2) project (3) Foundation staff (4) funding sources. Priorities might be a good way to do that.
        - Mark: Are we looking to fund lots of people, or fund a few specific people or things?
        - Mara: Would be good to focus on funding things that aren't likely to get funded elsewhere (e.g. not new feature development).
        - Eric Holk: Can we ask our teams about it?
        - Carol: crates.io already has a bunch of things we're interested in funding.
        - Mara: Library team has prevously discussed a meetup (that was easily funded from corporate sponsors) and separately a full-time reviewer/tech-writer/maintenance role (very hard to fund externally).
        - Carol: Is someone interested in writing up a proposal?
        - Mark: It's not clear to me what that proposal would exactly look like. Some of the questions raised here could be "small proposals" already.
        - Carol: Short-term (money now) and longer term (how do we think about this long-term)?
        - Mara: A few things have come up recently: hardware -- microphone, travel/hotel for conferences.
        - Carol: +1 to funding recently.
        - Mark: PDs have been pushing Foundation to make some proposals in this space too. One thing we asked about is whether funding ~12 roles would be feasible mid-to-long term.
        - Eric Holk: I sort of don't want to put back the money fully into the grants program.
        - Eric Holk: Buying microphones with people who need it seems like a good, effective idea. Easy, fast, clear benefit.
        - Jonathan: Small purchases can make a huge difference. Tiny, low-effort grant applications for e.g. hardware or other small budget things might be an easy way to make this happen. This worked really well for me.
        - Mara: Grants may put a lot of pressure on people. Giving (small) hardware or paying someone a full time salary is less burnout inducing.
        - Carol: Let's go ask our teams for inputs. Foundation staff will also be putting together some brainstorm docs for us to look at.
        - Eric Huss: What order of magnitude?
            - Mara: If we ask each team what they would do with "a six-figure budget", we'd get useful answers probably.
            - Carol: And note that both tiny amounts (e.g. microphone) to large amounts (e.g. salary).
        - Action items:
            - Carol to turn these notes into brainstorming document.
            - Everyone to solicit inputs from teams.
    - Trademark policy (*JP and Mara* **Time**: ? 5 min?)
        - *Private discussion*
- New business
  - Affiliation Limits (*Eric Holk* **Time**: 10 min) ([Draft Affiliation Limit Doc](https://hackmd.io/WEgu8pafTxmY7n26O1AVOw))
    - **Discuss**: Eric to share goals for affiliation limit policy and get Council's initial feedback.
    - Eric Holk: Doc is linked. Some comments already inline.
    - Eric Holk: Affiliation limits are something we've discussed as potentially too stifling. But, doc is intended to help structure conversation. May not be that we actually do change things.
    - Goals in the doc: [...] (not repeating here)
    - Mara: The discussion seems to come down to picking priorities. E.g., 5 americans from different companies vs. 5 people all from different continents but all same company, which to prefer? If the answer is always "it depends", then it seems like we aren't going to be able write that down as a list of priorities.
    - Mara: The 2nd part is that, regardless of specifics, we should make things very clear on what rules we're following, so people aren't surprised like last time.
    - Eric Holk: Like the example. Ranking dimensions of diversity seems hard or impossible. Adding flexibility seems like my preferred approach. Non-voting members might be one path (sharing a vote if multiple).
    - Jonathan: Companies vs. countries for example. Can also go ask people who wrote the rules.
    - Eric Huss: Should council and project directors match?
        - Eric Holk: Not required. PD rules are slower, harder to change.
    - Mara: Rules for directors are more tightly tied to employment since the Board already has representation from companies. Employers in Council space matter much less, generally speaking.
    - Carol: Perception of take over from a single company seems like a risk for the outside, even if we on the Council/project don't worry as much about it.
    - Eric Holk: Another aspect is protecting companies from the same risk (e.g. "we are not going to take over"), can help them be more confident in engaging.
    - Jack: What are our next steps? Are we driving towards a specific proposal?
    - Eric Holk: I think hashing out goals -- e.g. a ranking -- then we should put up a PR with async sign-off. PRs against our repo with policies seems like the shape we'd go through.
    - Mara: Trademark & this comes from fear -- e.g., worry over companies taking over, worry over trademark abuse, etc. Instead of focusing on the scariest situations that we want to prevent, how can we make a policy that helps us when everything is going right?
    - Jonathan: Maybe in terms of the value of diversity, rather than the evils of its lack?
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
