# 2024-04-12

## Attendance

Council: Carol, Mark, Mara, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey
Missing attendees: Jonathan, Josh
Observers: Niko, TC, Santiago

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Facilitator: eholk
    - Scribe: mark
- Turn on recording (done)
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- crates.io RFC (ehuss Time: 1 minute)
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3595
    - Reminder, please take a look.
- GitHub access policy (ehuss Time: 1 minute)
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2872
    - Reminder, please take a look.
- Edition status update (ehuss Time: 2 minutes)
    - Eric and TC are jointly running the edition. Continue to be concerned about workload here.
- Council conflict of interest review (ehuss Time: 2 minutes)
    - Review is scheduled for now, no changes amongst attendees.
    - Action item: ehuss will follow up offline with Josh and Jonathan.
- RustConf Input Requests (2 minutes)
    - Foundation would like a response by the end of 2024-04-12
    - https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/399387-foundation-council-private/topic/RustConf.20Input.20Requests
    - Keynote proposals
        - Any concerns/objections/other suggestions?
        - No significant thoughts on our side, suggestions sound fine.
    - Unconf driver/thoughts
        - Santiago: Jane helped with the last unconf.
        - Structurally need a small group, maybe pulling a similar structure to leads summit.
        - Action item: Eric Holk will find and/or own forming the group to own this.
- Budget from Foundation (Jack, 15 minutes)
    - https://hackmd.io/@jackh726/rkp946NlR
    - Question: Does this budget seem reasonable? Should we pass this to the foundation to figure out exact details? (i.e. what is the process from approval to members receiving money)
    - Jack: ...summarizing document...
    - Mark: Foundation staff will be elaborating the PD proposals into more depth (concrete processes for who/approvals/etc).
    - Eric Holk: List looks broadly reasonable. Some comments inline.
    - Mark: Do we have something concrete to approve? e.g., is there actually something to do?
    - Mara: We have concrete asks from some people for e.g. travel grants. Should we approve budget and then allow smaller decisions to go forward?
    - Jack: What would be the concret concerns for specific proposals?
    - Eric Holk: Feeling some hesitation about "big decision". Biggest risk is not spending it and not learning things from doing so. There's unallocated budget as we learn things.
    - Mark: Travel is the main one I have hesitation around. For example, who gets chunks of the budget or not depending on employment etc.
    - Mara: Let's start experimenting, not worrying about theoretical situations. Let's move forward case-by-case approving each situation.
        - +1 from Jack. We can evolve as we learn.
    - Mark: I'm happy with that. But what are we actually then approving if there's case by case decisions?
    - Eric Holk: We'll need to wrap due to time. I have a few concrete questions.
    - Mara: Decision proposal: <1 week turnaround on concrete asks for funding from people for travel grants, staying within budget above. Re-evaluate in ~3 months.
        - Jack: Plus: Council will (for now) always directly approve via Zulip poll or similar that decision.
    - Eric Holk: Let's setup polls in Zulip and async decide?
    - Mara: Let's vote now on Travel. It has a concrete outstanding request.
    - +1 decision made on the travel question.
- Project goals proposal (presentation by Niko, 30 minutes)
    - https://hackmd.io/@nikomatsakis/ByFkzn_10
    - Niko presents!
    - Niko: Want to use project resources (blog, etc.) so gaining Council approval is helpful.
    - Niko: So, want approval for me to go do the things executing on these things.
    - Carol: Goal here is to support Niko's work as being project sponsored.
    - Eric Holk: RFC is the formal process.
    - (A bunch of discussion on how to actually approve this)
    - Niko: I'll put up an RFC for this.
        - Carol: Let's move it into FCP quickly.
- Project Leads Summit Recap (eholk, Jonathan, Josh, Mara)
    - *skipped due to time*
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
