# 2024-01-19

## Agenda

- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: Carol tentatively volunteering
  - Note taker: Mark tentatively volunteering
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Old business
    - **Decide**: [What do we want to do with private meeting notes?](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/60) Email to current members?
    - **Decide**: [Ownership and permissions of the Forge](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/47)
      - "any team that wants access to the Forge can use it" - any objections?
      - T-infra is overall owner of the Forge - any objections?
    - **Decide**: Is there anyone remaining who has questions about the trademark explainer doc?
    - **Decide**: Is there anyone on council who wants to be in a group to work on the trademark stuff? Is there anyone outside of council we should ask?
- New business
    - [Leads Summit](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392736-council.2Fprivate/topic/Rust.20Leads.20Summit) (eholk)  
      **Decide**: Do we want to put the "council seal of approval" on this?
        - [Proposal doc](https://hackmd.io/O5W2Iv7HSKWgRcbZLFx9Cg?view)
        - Questions:
            - Are we okay with doing this?
            - Will we officially endorse it?
            - Should any project-wide decisions be made at the summit? How should we approach that and communicate about it?
            - How do we feel about funding (event costs, travel) from the foundation?
            - Does anyone want to help put together an agenda?
- If time
    - **Discuss**: [How are we going to make decisions about how to spend money in the future?](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/65) What processes are possible? Who is interested in writing up proposals of processes?
    - Initiative updates (*ehuss* **Time**: permitting, move to the end of the agenda if there are higher priority agenda items)
        - Shape discussion (*ehuss*)
        - Team repo management (*jack*)
        - Foundation relationship (*pds?*)
        - Affiliation limits (*eholk*)
        - Project management (i.e. edition) (*ehuss* *carol*)
        - Mod team growth (*Josh*)
        - PD Election review (*eholk*)
    - Issue triage (*ehuss* **Time**: permitting)
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Council: Carol, Mark, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, Jonathan Pallant, Josh Gould
Observers: TC, Tyler Mandry, Santiago

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator: Carol tentatively volunteering
  - Note taker: Mark tentatively volunteering
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Old business
    - **Decide**: [What do we want to do with private meeting notes?](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/60) Email to current members?
        - Desire to avoid sharing private notes by default with future members
        - Proposal: Email to current members after each meeting.
        - **Decision**: No objections, seems like we can do this.
    - **Decide**: [Ownership and permissions of the Forge](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/47)
      - "any team that wants access to the Forge can use it" - any objections?
          - Jonathan: What about WGs?
              - Eric Huss: Seems easiest to just go with teams perhaps?
              - Eric Holk: I think we should let WGs use it if they want.
              - Carol: Anything which has permissions delegatable via team repo?
              - **Decision**: Anyone can request & get access.
      - T-infra is overall owner of the Forge - any objections?
          - Jack: What does owner mean? Is this like team repo, where infra owns content?
          - Carol: PRs not sitting, making sure that PRs work, Rust code, etc.
          - Eric Huss: Yes, intention was just making sure it works. Teams are responsible for content.
          - **Decision**: Infra will own making sure the site works.
    - **Decide**: Is there anyone remaining who has questions about the trademark explainer doc?
        - *Private discussion*
- New business
    - [Leads Summit](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392736-council.2Fprivate/topic/Rust.20Leads.20Summit) (eholk) 
      **Decide**: Do we want to put the "council seal of approval" on this?
        - [Proposal doc](https://hackmd.io/O5W2Iv7HSKWgRcbZLFx9Cg?view)
        - Questions:
            - Are we okay with doing this?
            - Will we officially endorse it?
            - Should any project-wide decisions be made at the summit? How should we approach that and communicate about it?
            - How do we feel about funding (event costs, travel) from the foundation?
            - Does anyone want to help put together an agenda?
        - Eric Holk: At the same time as some of the major conferences, get face-to-face discussions and alignment work for the Project.
        - Eric Holk: Some concerns around not everyone being able to make it. Some specific questions... ^
        - Mara: RustNL (in May) offered a room too.
        - Jonathan: Decisions seems too difficult, going to be exclusionary no matter what. But seems like a good thing for folks to do.
        - Mara: Making decisions without meeting notes is always a bad idea. But also super useful to talk about things together.
        - Eric Holk: Concern of timeline is real. Some discussions would be great to start having.
        - Carol: A regular expected event at one or more conferences seems like a good idea.
        - Mara: Organizing something at every opportunity rather than single event per year seems like a great idea, much less pressure.
        - Eric Holk: A single event can be easier to fund, especially in terms of making a stronger case of funding.
        - Josh: Not that I wouldn't enjoy hanging out, but want to talk about intent - is this a private discussion? only Rust team members? Panel? etc.
            - Josh: Want to avoid official "announcements" that aren't actually official coming out of it.
        - Jack: Would expect private to project members, not typically including lots of community members.
        - **Decision**: OK with us doing this.
        - Carol: What does endorsing mean?
            - Jack: Do our best to ensure that people can make it? But not sure.
            - Eric Holk: Blog post that goes out? Putting resources toward funding travel, etc.
            - Jonathan: Us encouraging folks to go.
            - Carol: Want more specific proposals. Don't think we should decide anything now.
            - Eric Holk: Just start with working closely and supporting to the extent we can.
        - Carol: Any decisions get made? No seems like the consensus. Would go through normal process.
            - Eric Holk: No binding decisions getting made at such events seems like standard process.
            - Eric Holk: Asking for some concrete outputs -- e.g., blog posts with some notes -- would be great.
        - Carol: How do we fund this?
            - Mara: Next item on agenda seems like this same question, shouldn't discuss this separately.
            - Mark: I would expect that the Foundation answer is going to be the same.
            - Jonathan: Asking folks to reach out to Council if they are interested but finances are a barrier?
        - Eric Holk: I can be a point of contact for this with regards to Council.
        - Carol: Jonathan seems likely to be there.
        - Mara: Happy to be a point of contact for logistics or maybe financials.
- If time
    - **Discuss**: [How are we going to make decisions about how to spend money in the future?](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/65) What processes are possible? Who is interested in writing up proposals of processes?
        - Carol: we have 5 minutes -- what are the next steps we can take offline?
        - Mara: Want to caution against assuming we (council) are going to get and manage our own budget from the foundation. That idea has been mentioned a few times, but we haven't actually decided yet that that's how we want to do things. That should be an explicit decision, not just an assumption.
        - Jack: Discussing where we would want money spent remains useful even if it's not us doing that.
        - Carol: Proposal: Folks write up what they'd like to see, and share it for others to read.
            - Jack: I have ideas. Happy to write them down.
            - Mara: Can we schedule a 15 minute brainstorm for next meeting perhaps?
            - Carol: Sounds good, with specifics to follow.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
