# Council 2024-03-15

Attendance: Eric Huss, Jack Huey, Jonathan Pallant, Josh Gould, Mark Rousskov, Eric Holk

Observers: TC

**No pre-agreed agenda today**

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Mark is taking notes
    - Eric Huss facilitating
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - Repo archiving will start soon (cleaning up not-used repositories)
    - PRs open on leadership council (https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pulls)
        - Eric Huss: How should we be merging these?
        - Jack Huey: Perhaps just FCP them?
        - Jonathan Pallant: I'd prefer one reviewer for reversible decisions (like the toolchain).
        - Eric Holk: I think of that repo as "word of the Project", so we should have some evidence of council-wide agreement. So I think more than 2 of us should be involved.
        - Mark Rousskov: +1 for FCP. Would rather avoid an incident driven through just lack of review.
- Eric Huss: Meeting Purpose
    - Eric Huss: Making decisions? Some prefer async. I find sync helpful too.
    - Eric Huss: Open discussions -- useful, but 8-9 people is pretty large group.
        - Are we OK with open discussions?
    - Jack Huey: We should come to the meeting with something to talk about. But otherwise, anything can be talked about. Having the meeting is important.
    - Eric Holk: Humanizing and building relationships via meeting; helps to emphasize nuance. Seems like potentially the most important aspect. Part of it is face time, part of it is driving consensus on contentious issues.
    - Jonathan: +1 to these things. I find meeting useful for dedicated time to focus on this.
    - Jack: Note that we don't have everyone. So we've lost some voices. Those of us who are here probably see more value in meeting.
    - Mark: Mark is here mostly because he is needed (recording, etc.). There is value in having it, but not just having it for the sake of having it.
    - Josh: There is likely to be an evolving set of people in the Council. Some may prefer async work, some may prefer to be here. But having and making a decision on whether this meeting occurs is useful.
    - Jack: Having 1 person responsible for deciding either way on the meeting X days/hours in advance.
    - Eric Holk: Fixing the agenda by -1 full day would be good. Failure is not making the agenda; we clearly have work to do.
    - Jack: There should be a minimum, but adding things last minute feels not terrible.
    - Jonathan: Maybe we're lacking someone responsible for putting together agendas?
    - Eric Huss: +1 to that gap.
    - Mark: High value to discussing thoughts on things - sometimes we think we're in agreement, but we all have slightly different thoughts.
    - Mark: There's a backlog and things that could be on a backlog. I'm not convinced meeting in and of themselves are useful for driving the backlog.
    - Eric Huss: It's tricky to figure out what the benefits are. I have a list of things to bring up, but didn't add them because I didn't have specific proposals. Trying to tie them back to the "Shape" discussions.
    - Jack: I think tying our discussions to our priorities is good. Just checking in on what progress we're making on our priorities could be useful. Getting temperature on ideas is useful.
    - Jonathan: Can volunteer to amend/write a process for ensuring meetings have an agenda.
        - Eric Huss: There's a sync meeting procedure checked-in, but doesn't say who exactly is responsible. https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md#meeting-agenda
        - Jonathan: Rotating thing, with next meeting agenda driver picked in previous meeting.
- Eric Huss: Youtube?
    - Josh: I care a bit. Having someone responsible and uploads are timely. Just managing content seems like enough.
    - Jonathan: Also want to drive this to closure.
    - Eric Huss: Subteam of community, in theory. But that ties into a different bundle of worms.
    - Jack Huey: First step of marker team with people who have access. Then drive from there. "Why?" is an important piece of context.
    - Josh: Was on community for a while. There are other things that fall in this bucket roughly (e.g., youtube, maybe other things). Maybe the parent team of community doesn't necessarily make sense here. The existence of the team doesn't feel particularly good (in that it doesn't act as a team, just an ACL).
    - Eric Holk: Getting a list put together and asking them whether they want access.
    - Eric Holk: Investing more in external-facing content (e.g., making sure we have good docs perhaps?) seems like something that's good to me.
    - Jack: If running it is important, but don't have anyone to run it, we could ask the Foundation to do that. Seems like a leverage point for this kind of work.
    - Jonathan: YT policy seems like it shouldn't necessarily be Council. This stuff just doesn't fit well under the Project umbrella today IMO. (See recent blog post. https://thejpster.org.uk/blog/blog-2024-02-09/)
    - Josh: That's the vision I had for the community team's scope. Finding people with time, energy, and interest is hard. Keeping track of in-flight work is hard - work is bursty, not necessarily regular or routine.
    - Josh: Would be happy to maintain the YT account in specific. Happy to talk with folks about the general community scope.
    - Jonathan: We should squeeze some time during the London sync.
    - Eric Huss: Want to avoid pressuring someone to do things by having the discussion of gaps.
        - Josh: I just feel like it'd be cool to see it succeed, not feeling pressure.
- Eric Huss: Progress on Foundation funding
    - Will continue this on Zulip
- Eric Huss: Requiring team charters
    - Just looking for a poll of how folks feel about this.
    - Eric Huss: Would be intersted in helping drive this.
    - Mark: It sounds like a very good idea on paper. I'm worried that we've really struggled to materialize this into a (useful!) reality historically, so don't want you to expend a bunch of energy without useful outputs.
    - Jack: Worried that some teams may not have exact scope (e.g. wg-llvm).
    - Eric Holk: Minimal charter around a mission statement for the team seems like a good idea. Maybe that's a useful driver for something productive happening out of it.
    - Jonathan: +1 to Eric Holk.
    - Eric Huss: My next steps are to solicit more feedback (Zulip etc) and push towards an RFC.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
