# 2024-02-02

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Faciliator: Eric Holk
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- New business
  - ~~Affiliation Limits (Eric Holk) ([Draft Affiliation Limit Doc](https://hackmd.io/WEgu8pafTxmY7n26O1AVOw))
    **Discuss**: (10 minutes) Eric to share goals for affiliation limit policy and get Council's initial feedback.~~
  - March council appointments (*ehuss*, **Time**: 15 Minutes)
      - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Next.20council.20appointments
      - **Goal**: Either decide on this in the meeting, or focus on getting the decision async on Zulip.
      - **Stretch Goal**: If we decide to do the appointments in March, decide who will rotate out.
- Old business
  - **Discuss**: (15 min) Brainstorm on [How are we going to make decisions about how to spend money in the future?](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/65)
    - What are our goals?
    - What processes are possible?
    - Who is interested in writing up proposals of processes?
  - Trademark (Jonathan and Mara)
    - 20 minute presentation
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance

Council: Carol, Mark (first half), Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, Jonathan Pallant, Josh Gould, Mara
Observers: TC, Niko, Ryan, Santiago

## Notes


- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Faciliator: Eric Holk
    - Note takers: Carol and Jack
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - Jack is applying us to GSoC today
- Consent to agenda
  - Moving Affiliation limits async
  - Making trademark presentation private, but allowing observers, reminder no screenshots and notes will remain private.
- Agenda
   - March council appointments (*ehuss*, **Time**: 15 Minutes)
      - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Next.20council.20appointments
      - **Goal**: Either decide on this in the meeting, or focus on getting the decision async on Zulip.
      - **Stretch Goal**: If we decide to do the appointments in March, decide who will rotate out.
      - ehuss: just need to make a decision
      - Josh: do we have candidates? This took a while last time.
      - Mara: There are plenty of teams with no candidates? Anyone that wants to rotate out?
      - ehuss: Don't necessarily need to have someone leave, just needs to be reelected.
      - Mark: Might be good to go through the motions even if there are some teams that don't really have alternatives or are happy with current rep
      - eholk: Better to err on the side of more often
      - Carol: I want to fold crates.io into another team, that's one
      - Jonathan: Important thing is that half the council rotates out at a time
      - eholk: crates.io, launching pad, compiler, seems like we should get 4. Move discussion async. We will do appointments in March, should circulate announcements soon.
  - Trademark (Jonathan and Mara)
    - *Private discussion*
