# 2024-01-05

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Old business
    - Announcement: github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3533 is in FCP
    - Initiative updates (*ehuss* **Time**: permitting)
        - Shape discussion (*ehuss*)
        - Team repo management (*jack*)
        - Foundation relationship (*pds?*)
        - Affiliation limits (*eholk*)
        - Project management (i.e. edition) (*ehuss* *carol*)
        - Mod team growth (*Josh*)
        - PD Election review (*eholk*)
    - Issue triage (*ehuss* **Time**: permitting)
- New business
    - Google Summer of Code (*Jack* **Time**: ??)
        - **Goal**: Discuss if the project should submit a proposal to GSoC, and who and how that would be managed.
        - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/335408-foundation/topic/Google.20Summer.20of.20Code.20and.20idea.20list
            - GSoC Timeline: https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline (open Jan 22, Feb 6 deadline)
            - GSoC Mentor/Org Guide: https://google.github.io/gsocguides/mentor/org-application 
    - Foundation budget (*rylev* **Time**: 20m)
        - **Goal**: Discuss how we want to work with PDs on influencing the budgeting decisions.
        - Concrete examples (from Carol): 
            - Crates.io team would like budget for a designer
            - Council is exploring paying someone to be 2024 Edition Manager
    - Trademark policy (*rylev* **Time**: 15m)
        - **Goal**: Discuss next steps.
        - **Previous discussion**: See #foundation-council-private. https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/30
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Attendance 

Council: Carol, Mark, Mara, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, Jack Huey, Josh Gould, Ryan

Apologies: Jonathan

Observers: TC, Niko

## Minutes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Ryan facilitating
    - Mark taking notes
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - Jack: RustConf committee RFC out (https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3549), please take a look.
        - Q: What kind of timeline are we on? (Seems like next meeting is OK).
    - Ryan: RFC for Infra/Release merge is coming to a close, will be leaving council as such soon.
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3533
        - Mara: Would you be interested in helping facilitate?
        - Ryan: Happy to help, not planning to go anywhere.
        - Jack: We should make sure to update relevant committees, etc.
        - Ryan: Yes, but note that committee members don't need to be council members.
- Consent to agenda
- New business
    - Foundation budget (*rylev* **Time**: 20m)
        - **Goal**: Discuss how we want to work with PDs on influencing the budgeting decisions.
        - Concrete examples (from Carol): 
            - Crates.io team would like budget for a designer
            - Council is exploring paying someone to be 2024 Edition Manager
        - Ryan: Intro -- this is an opportunity for the Council/Project to influence what to spend money on. Want to start a conversation on how we figure out how to allocate funds. (Probably not what to spend on for today, just how to decide).
        - Eric Holk: Having a list on what we might want to spend money on would be helpful. Feels fuzzy after the obvious (e.g., CI).
        - Jack: Worth asking what can be helped with to teams. We have a few things where we need teams to give input, not yet clear what that precisely looks like / means. 
        - Josh: Are we making suggestions? Do we have discretionary control? It seems important that we come up with policy/process that makes us confident we're spending in the right way.
        - Ryan: Broadly speaking we will have strong discretion.
        - Ryan: e.g. CI are already budgeted for, no need to have us pay for that out of this.
        - Ryan: We might want some kind of polling/survey infrastructure to let us pull inputs from teams more easily.
        - Josh: Not just making sure *we* are confident, but that it is obvious why the funds were spent this way, with clear documentation.
        - Mara: Want to make sure that we are channeling the money into the project, so that people working within the Project are supported directly.
        - Ryan: Supporting the Project is differently defined to different people (e.g., supporting infra vs supporting people). We will want to decide how to define support for ourselves. Some of this is our responsibility, some of it is pulling the Foundation to help with selling our goals.
        - Josh: +1 to making sure we can tell the story of what resulted from funding some project or group of people.
        - Carol: Seems like we're in favor of (1) having a process involving teams (2) documenting process / outcomes publicly. What timeline are we on?
        - Ryan: Discretionary model should give us more flexibility over the course of the year. So, time pressure is maybe less. To some extent we should move quickly to make sure we spend quickly.
        - Mara: There was discussion on Zulip (e.g., bug bounty, technical goals, etc.)... I'm not sure these are the right strategy. Worried that we're not going to end up supporting the people who are filling in between team boundaries or otherwise doing work that isn't in the buckets. The Rust project runs on people doing things they were not asked to do; things they didn't plan to do. Let's not just fund things, but fund *people*. The project is made up of people, after all.
        - Mark: Timeline wise -- we should make sure we can demonstrate outcomes sooner rather than later, to help justify the budget, etc. Also if we want something larger (e.g., full time hire), that may need to be carved out of the general Foundation budget, not the discretionary project budget, so likely more of a yearly thing.
        - eholk: Funding people is hard, but it seems like the way to make the best impact.
        - Ryan: Taking the rest of the discussion offline.
    - Google Summer of Code (*Jack* **Time**: ??)
        - **Goal**: Discuss if the project should submit a proposal to GSoC, and who and how that would be managed.
        - **Previous discussion**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/335408-foundation/topic/Google.20Summer.20of.20Code.20and.20idea.20list
            - GSoC Timeline: https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline (open Jan 22, Feb 6 deadline)
            - GSoC Mentor/Org Guide: https://google.github.io/gsocguides/mentor/org-application 
        - Jack: Importantly, the money here is Google's. The requirements are that (a) someone mentors and (b) someone (the Project) formally proposes what to do. There's a tentative list of ideas that have been proposed on Zulip. For today, want to discuss how we can get folks to propose things.
        - Mara: What is the task of the council? Individual teams can participate if they want, right?
            - Jack: That teams know about the opportunity and know about deadlines, etc. Our job is to communicate out to the project.
        - Mara: Should we just delegate an announcement to e.g. Jack? There's not really any project-wide decision for the council to be made.
        - Ryan: +1 that -- Council can/should decide "we support the idea as The Project", but no more than that.
            - Council had no objections to us participating.
        - Eric Holk: Does GSOC need a point of contact from the Project as a whole?
        - Ryan: Jakub is coordinating this, Foundation is around for some legal paperwork, but otherwise seems like they're the person.
        - No objections to participating in GSOC.
    - Trademark policy (*rylev* **Time**: 15m)
        - **Goal**: Discuss next steps.
        - **Previous discussion**: See #foundation-council-private. https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/30
        - *Private discussion regarding legal matters*
- Old business
    - Skipped due to time
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
