# 2024-06-07

## Attendance

- Council: Mark, Eholk, Ehuss, James Munns, Jack Huey
- Observers: TC, Santiago

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Note taker: James
    - Facilitator: Eric Holk
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - [NEW] Recap discussions regarding the Launching Pad Team (James **Time**: 10 Minutes)
        - James: this is still open, wanted to see if anyone had thoughts
        - Eric Holk: we had previously thought we were going to redesign entire Project structure, but smaller changes have been good (T-release and T-crates-io merge RFCs)
        - Jack Huey: +1 to "thought we would do a big thing", hasn't happened
            - Discussions at RustNL:
                - Chat with Niko
                    - different org structures: Teams, Projects, Ping Groups
                - Wants to write down and Pre-RFC
                - Discussions re: Embedded WG
                    - Progress to be made there
                    - First step: some kind of subteam of T-Compiler + T-Libs for maintenance?
                - Agree w/ Eric that incremental progress is most likely to successful
            - Josh Triplett: Ideas re: a T-Design
                - TBD when put together
        - Eric Huss:
            - Two really big questions (that doesn't have progress on an answer):
                - "What is the Rust Project" - what deserves to be part of it
                    - Some folks opinions about things to drop/add. Why should one thing be a part of the rust-lang org, and not another?
                    - ex: CLI working group?
                - "Manpower" - Example is communication based groups
                    - twir, social media, blog, etc?
                    - Someone needs to be responsible for those groups
        - Eric Holk: re: "Cross Cutting Concerns"
            - Underrated tool for cross linking: one person that is member of N teams
            - Cross pollination of discussions
            - Tempting to "fix by reorg"
            - Consider "team link" people role
        - James Munns:
            - Talked to people at RustNL and Oxidize
                - Talked to Pietro wrt to Security Response WG
            - Incremental steps
        - Jack Huey:
            - Regarding the "who is in the project"
            - Teams and projects are part of the project
            - Ping groups not part of the project?
        - Eric Holk
            - WG-Async may have a subteam home in T-Lang
    - [OLD] Budget updates and discussion (Jack **Time**: 5-10m)
        - Summary
            - Talked about a while ago
            - Already implemented travel grants
            - Want to move forwards with the "easy accept" items
        - Poll for thoughts
            - Mark: "sort of" implemented travel grants, not very formal
              would like to move provisional things into formal things
            - Eric Holk: Mention of "Team Swag"/Gifts
                - Make a team around this? Next action item
                - Work best not done by the council
            - Jack:
                - Agree (to delegate?), maybe not a team
                - To the Council: We would like to distribute XYZ, anyone interested
                  in ironing out the details? (still delegate, less formal)
            - Eric Holk:
                - Yep, no T-Swag, yes needs owner "responsibility for" this (proposals)
            - Jack: Agree
            - Mark: Delegate to Foundation? Say "spend $XXXX budget, foundation please handle"
            - Jack: Could be delegated to foundation, Jack happy to ask if they are interested
            - (Some discussion about quorum or not)
            - Mark: Next step set up a budget and a proposal
            - Jack: To open a stream about this
            - Eric Huss: Other items in budget doc?
            - Jack:
                - https://hackmd.io/19A-reGxS96_wTyDyo7GZQ
                - Swag
                - Petty Cash
                - Project Ops hire
            - Jack: Last number for swag: 10k (more than enough)
            - James Next steps:
                - Figure out budget for swag
                - Figure out who to delegate to
            - Jack: Re Petty Cash
                - Hardware (or software) for project members
                - Idea (from foundation?) team leads in charge of allocating funds based on needs
                - Counterpropose: start with 10k/y, each top level team 100/mo, re-evaluate in 6mo
                    - Microphone, Headsets, small buys to make members more productive
            - Eric:
                - Good for whatever one-off purchases to keep wheels moving
                - Room for flexibility
            - Mark: No objections, but we should have a written artifact, approve async
            - James: Agree, also ask what we need re: record keeping
            - Jack: Link Paul's doc for record keeping - Put it in Council repo?
            - Jack: Project Ops Hire
                - Proposal to hire Antonio for "compiler ops work"
                - Continue + experiment with this role, implement more project wide ones
                - He had discussions at RustNL
                - Proposal had good discussion
                - Thoughts?
            - Eric:
                - Proposal is to hire Antonio, do what he's doing and expand
                - Would like to see more clarity re: future direction
                - Make sure it is likely to work
            - Jack:
                - Yes - General proposal to continue compiler role
                - Expanding it is very experimental
                - Need to hire someone to "figure it out"
                - First step is having some have the time to attend meetings
                - Push back on having a proposal up front
            - James:
                - +1 to hire just to get up to speed, proposal later
            - Jack:
                - Adj: Hire for 6mo
                - Replan + re-evaluate every 3mo
                - Enough to get things rolling and see if there are results
            - Eric Holk:
                - James' model: "short contract to figure out the big contract"
                - Don't want to "hire for a different job than is useful today"
                - Doing in Milestones makes sense
                - Who is the manager? Performance Reviews, etc?
                - In the past we've left this to the foundation, is this a good model for this role?
            - Jack:
                - Agree w/ Eric Holk re: HR items
                - Primary focus: Continue the compiler work
                - Talked with (two people? missed names?)
                - they said they are happy w/ Antonios work and would like it to expand
                - Next steps: Ask foundation if they can fill the management role here?
                - Off the council's shoulders?
            - Mark:
                - Management should not fall on council + team leads - not equipped
                - When we go to the foundation:
                    - We say "we want to contract someone for X months for a specific things"
                    - We give them job role
                    - Decision: Are we asking for a continuous role or a proposal?
            - Jack:
                - Could be the same - hire someone to figure out what their role should be?
            - Mark:
                - Seems clear we want the foundation + us to figure out what is needed to hire
                - Do we think this needs a council decision, or just go ahead and ask?
            - Jack:
                - Happy to reach out and get Foundation's feedback on what hiring specifics are needed
                - Can outline what we talked about here
            - Eric Holk (time check)
    - [OLD] gcc license request
        - Eric Holk: Looking for a responsible? Oh it's Eric Holk
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/125419
        - Eric Huss:
            - People working on GCC stuff (`libgccjit.so`) want to put a dynamic object in Rust distribution
            - This is a first inclusion of GPL code
            - We need to figure out "is this okay"?
            - This spirals out to needing a process for getting answers to these questions
                - Foundation legal?
        - Jack:
            - Who do we reach out to at the foundation? Just open a topic in private zulip stream?
            - Kick to figure out who the contact is?
        - Mark:
            - We do have this process
            - Wesley has reached out to Abi Broom for legal questions
            - We can do by email as "more durable"
            - Someone needs to compose the question if we think its a legal question
        - Jack:
            - Agree with Mark
            - Q: Is this process documented anywhere? We should make sure it is so people can follow it
        - Eric Holk:
            - Propose we tag Abi in the GCC issue, "does this look good?"
            - allow for private follow up
        - James:
            - We should be loud about this
        - Eric Huss:
            - This is an optional component
            - To Eric Holk: Can you take responsibility for this?
        - Eric Holk: Yes I can do that
        - Eric Huss: Happy to help but can't own
        - Eric Holk: Can't solve general problem, can own this one
        - Eric Huss: +1 on this one being a trial balloon, ease into the general problem
        - Eric Holk: will follow up
    - [OLD] trademark update?
        - Skipped due to time
    - [NEW] Issue Review/Triage (Eric Holk **Time**: remaining time, if there is any)
        - Skipped due to time
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
