# 2024-07-05

## Attendance

- Council: Mark, Eholk, Ehuss, James Munns, Jack Huey, Mara

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
  - Facilitator:
- Regular procedure reminder
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/synchronous-meetings.md
  - https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/procedures/meeting-observers.md
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - Mara: Found a venue for All Hands 2025 (Utrecht, Netherlands)
        - Conference First
        - Then All Hands
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - OLD Survey (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Update on status, plan on processing
        - Going pretty well, >54 responses, more than expected
        - Ask: How to go through responses?
            - Eric Huss - Proposal:
                - Subset of Council, first pass grouping + summarizing
                - Then everyone goes over it
            - Mara: Are individual responses private?
                - Eric Huss: We can see all, but can't share publicly
                - Won't have until Friday (at the earliest)
            - Eric Holk:
                - Subset of council for summary SGTHim
                - Willing to help
            - Mark: Also willing to help
    - OLD Travel grant policy (*ehuss* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Approve the new policy? Advocate for more usage?
        - Eric Huss:
            - Paul put up proposal, looks good
            - Should we be advocating for people to use this more frequently
        - Mara: Should we evaluate the programme first, how it's going so far?
        - Jack:
            - The goal here is to set a policy for "don't involve the council"
            - Should we be advocating more? I think yes
            - Jack is reminding people already
            - Doesn't think we need to evaluate
        - James: Strong +1 to using the budget
        - Mark:
            - New policy looks good
            - We might want to make this public (as an RFC?)
            - Good way to make this more visibile
            - Could ask Paul to drive RFC, seems not controversial
        - Eric Holk:
            - Codifying what we are already doing
            - Wants to add some minor comments
            - Happy with grant process, glad to see it used
            - Hard to use the full budget (long way away currently)
            - Some people working at Big Companies may have COI with taking money
                - Could be reason why we haven't seen usage?
        - Josh Gould:
            - Current way we have things (council approval):
            - Provides us a nice list of approvals that happens
            - Council *probably* has no reason to deny, but, in event it does,
            - would be nice to have a list of approvals that have happened
            - Would like list to be available to council
        - Mara:
            - All-hands: A lot people traveling, is that coming from council budget?
            - Haven't discussed: Mostly for people who can't pay otherwise (employer)
            - "What if they work at google?" -> At what point is it out responsibility or not?
            - Visibility of unemployed/employed at smaller company so far
            - What kind of events are we going to sponsor travel to?
            - Also for team meetings (e.g. team meet up?) 2-3 of individuals?
        - Jack:
            - Good comments so far, biggest things to think about:
                - What do we need to do now?
                - What should we think about when doing evaluations?
                - What to codify in an RFC?
            - Policy that Paul put is not the same as our policy for what we can allow people to take
            - It's a subset of "blanket accept" criteria
            - Should the blanket policy be the same as what council can do?
            - Questions for RFC:
                - Do we codify blanket policy?
                - Do we codify Council capability?
        - James:
            - Clarify some details from the budget
        - Mark:
            - Overall budget is similar next year
            - expect that unused budget will roll over?
            - If unused 2 years in a row, might get re-specced
            - Probably not "use it or lose it" wrt budgets
        - Mara:
            - Incremental approach for "blanket accept" good
            - We're not overwhelmed now, not a lot of time pressure
            - Right now: we're not actively advertising this: passive approach
            - Should we be more active about this?
            - What about people who do have employers?
                - Interesting question to ask foundation
                - Will they be upset if "funding travel for a lot of google employees"
                - Foundation might be better placed to address that w/ Google
        - Jack:
            - **wrt active/passive**:
            - Good to think about
            - Previously: Unsure about amount of demand (and how much to expect)
            - Given low demand so far: Maybe we do get more active/"generous"
            - Think about things like team meetups?
            - In favor of expanding, now is a good time for experimentation
            - Find supply/demand critical point
        - Eric Holk:
            - Paul's proposal is good for "short circuit" decisions
            - Narrow "short circuit" doesn't **preclude** more general things, like 2 people meetup
            - ATM we'd need a council approval for these
        - Josh:
            - +1 to Mara's suggestion to let people know (it exists AND scope)
            - Getting invited to events (like the leadership summit) is a very good feel + motivating
            - Could be good to focus on things with that "vibe"
            - Find organizer champions?
        - Eric Holk: Reminder to wrap up, async discussion + poll
        - Mara:
            - Do a poll on Zulip to approve Paul's proposal
            - A lot of visibility lost by all@ going to spam, more active outreach -> please everyone share the announcement in meetings/private zulip streams, etc.
            - Having a form for application might help with anxiety around "how to ask" -> ask foundation to set that up
    - NEW Review [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/projects/55/views/1) (*Eric Holk* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - Eric Holk:
            - Talked about this last week
            - We have an experimental board: https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/projects/55/views/1
        - James:
            - Suggestion to use as input for agenda, rather than read in meeting
        - Eric:
            - Do like looking in meeting
        - Jack:
            - Useful to have it on agenda
            - Maybe not 5m in every meeting, might be part of structure, like Announcements/Checkins
            - Someone can prep recent updates
            - Solicit specific opinions
        - James:
            - Was useful for "last second check for agenda additions"
        - Eric Holk:
    - NEW Update on WG-WASM [archiving](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/1489) (*James Munns* **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - James: Update summary
        - Jack:
            - When it's clear like this, we can probably "just do it"
            - For groups it is less clear: probably not worth policy
        - Eric:
            - Mentioned in chat: Probably okay to make this a T-Launching Pad
            - T-Launching pad might want to come up with team policy
    - NEW Project Director Elections update (two issues from project board)
        - Eric Holk:
            - Not prepared to discuss, but summary update:
                - Items from GH backlog
                - Had as a follow up from 1 year ago, been quiet since then
                - 1 month away from elections this year, time to get going again
            - Refining the process:
                - Learned from last time
                - Document needs to be updated
            - Eligibility Requirements
                - How we interpret employment reqs, freelancing, etc.
            - Path forward:
                - Close to having time, hoping to write PRs soon against process docs
                - Argue on PR about that
                - Interested in "writing down the status quo", there are imperfections
                - At least write down the "in practice" policy decisions
            - Reach out to Eric Holk with questions/comments
        - Jack:
            - Wanted to raise eligibility requirement (ER) questions in parallel
            - Last time: quite limited due to ERs
            - Do we want to change those ERs?
            - If we want to change that for this election - need to push hard
            - That being said: Doc on our repo for the process, is this sufficient?
            - Maybe just an update, not an overhaul?
        - Eric Holk:
            - Current doc is pretty good, but last year captured edge cases
            - Need to document "on the fly" decisions made last year
        - Eric Huss:
            - To Mark: Can we change the bylaws in time?
        - Mark:
            - To Eric: Probably not, but last year's rulings are more interpretation of bylaws
            - probably don't need actual full bylaw changes
            - Long term, might need, but bylaw changes take ETA 6 months
        - Eric Holk: Good to wrap up? Action item to get PRs up next week
    - Adhoc, re: all-hands:
        - Mara
            - Sponsors: Clear for conference, less clear for all-hands?
            - Thinking about budgeting for all hands
            - How much to set aside for all-hands?
                - is 100k for travel + 100k for event "too much?"
                - Temperature check
        - Mark
            - Offer companies paid slots for talking to group?
        - Mara
            - Could invite sponsors for "birthday party" part
            - Generally speaking? Recruiting?
        - Eric Holk
            - WRT budget: can we get everyone with current budget?
            - Actually sounds pretty reasonable
            - In favor in spending sizable chunk
            - biggest risk: not spending it
        - James:
            - Very big +1 to spending money on the all hands
            - Mozilla funded Rust All Hands is where Embedded WG started + was established
            - Good for "nucleation points"
        - Jack:
            - Liking how it is shaping up so far
            - Up to spending big on this one
            - Good to spend, but also good to solicit funding
            - Like idea of companies pay to have speaking slot
            - But: UI/Rust for Linux: May not have money to spend on that?
                - How can we not preclude that?
                - "Invited" and "Purchase" tiers for this?
        - Eric Holk:
            - Write a letter of invitation
            - "How to ask your employer to attend/fund attendance"
        - Jack:
            - Agree on invites
            - Make fact that it is happening be public - visibility good
            - Social pressure to allow attendance
        - Mara:
            - Groups can just join for free (RfL, UI, etc.)
            - Budget: Note that other big spend could be employment
        - James:
            - Form letter invitation "on letterhead" can help
        - Jack Huey:
            - Not just on RustNL for PR
            - Also on Project for PR + visibility
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
