# 2024-05-24

## Attendance

Council: Mark, Mara, Josh, Eric Huss, Jack, Eric Holk, James
Observers: TC, Santiago, Niko

## Notes

- Check-in
- Assign roles
    - Note taker: Mark
    - Facilitator: Eric Holk
- Turn on recording
- Announcements
    - Call for EuroRust speaker
        - https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/EuroRust.E2.80.94A.20slot.20for.20the.20Project.3F/near/439188046
- Consent to agenda
- Agenda items
    - [NEW] Rust 10 year celebration (Jack **Time**: 15 Minutes)
        - **Goal**: Decide if we want to do something.
        - **Proposal**:
            - Run an all hands
        - **Discussion**:
            - Jack: What do we want to do? Maybe a proposal?
            - Mara: There is a proposal for a "Rust Week" in NL during the week of the anniversary, and RustNL is willing to help organize an all hands or leadership summit (with some funding).
            - Eric Holk: Maybe include historical participants? Also would be interested in swag of some kind for all project members.
            - James: 50/50 split between scheduled and unscheduled time would be great.
            - Mara: RustNL expects to be more global, with online tracks in three timezones, though only one in-person event.
            - Jack: Overall positive sentiment, but we should aim to start organizing sooner rather than later. Want to ensure there's parallel fun activities (e.g., visiting a Museum).
            - Eric Holk: Agreed that we're generally in favor, and need to delegate as soon as possible.
            - Mara: RustNL to a full week -- the goal is specifically around providing this fun time. RustNL organisers can organise and take care of most things.
            - Mark: Let's get an estimate when we can so we can approve budget for this.
            - Mara: The travel for team members will be the most expensive aspect, the actual RustNL event is not specifically in need of additional help.
            - Eric Holk: Maybe should be foundation-sponsored?
            - Mara: Conferences have a standard month -- RustNL will be in May. RustNL is an associate member with the Foundation, etc.
            - Josh: RustConf is somewhat going through a turbulent phase, so not placing that tie makes sense.
            - Mark: So what are we actually deciding?
            - **Decision**: Mara will ask RustNL to talk with the Foundation and we will circle back next meeting with a status update.
            - Josh: +1 to involving the Foundation early.
    - [OLD] Edition status update (ehuss **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Inform what is going on, what might happen.
        - Eric Huss: Some aspects are completely done, some aspects are getting dropped. TC is suggesting to push the release by several months, we will hear more offline.
        - Jack: Let's make sure we consider timeline tradeoffs, especially if we keep pushing it out.
        - TC: Tracking issues are open for the items, owners are identified for each edition item. I'm connected with owners to ensure status updates, impl work, etc. Our main priorities are to make this successful, and avoid heroics from any individual. Some time will be needed for full package of tools to solidfy (e.g., rust-analyzer and rustfmt support). Aiming to release the edition in Rust 1.85.
    - [NEW] Council performance review (ehuss **Time**: 10 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Discuss how it is going to work. Due in June.
        - Eric Huss: There is a requirement per Council RFC to do a performance review. Goal is to solicit feedback on Council fulfilling its purpose from wider project.
        - Eric Holk: Incorporating feedback -- maybe 0-10 questions and free response boxes with a micro-survey of the project.
        - Jack, Eric Huss: +1 to such a mechanism.
        - Eric Holk: Let's put out a call in the council channel for a volunteer to write questions / run the survey, letting someone outside the council drive it. Will carry forward discussion on Zulip.
        - Eric Huss will coordinate kicking off the survey.
    - [OLD] RustConf "Project" panel (Jack **Time**: 5 minutes)
        - **Goal**: Decide if this is something we'd like to do - Jack can take lead on getting panel members.
        - Jack: Happy to own organization, but need Council feedback on doing it.
        - Eric Holk: +1
        - Mara: Would encourage *not* just Council members.
        - Jack: Agreed, would like to involve 1-2 council, 1-2 PDs, and some other people (e.g., GSOC).
        - Eric Holk: Sampling from the project sounds good to me.
        - **Decision**: Jack will own identifying a list of people and provide updates on Zulip to Foundation/Council.
    - [NEW] Project Goals update (niko)
        - Niko: Current state update -- https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2024h2/slate.html
        - Niko: Looking for feedback on "What is the size of the goal?"
            - Currently trending towards larger-size goals, with specific, short-term next steps.
            - Looking to drive specifics on approval for specific RFCs
            - number of goals is another open question
            - Starting to see interest from outside the project (e.g., Dioxus, Rust for Linux).
            - Planning to talk to more teams around the project about the idea, all@/blog post outreach.
            - Key question: Who makes a decision on *this is a goal*. Some goals feel different than others (e.g., async is sort of already "easy", vs. "we want seamless C support" perhaps really needing an RFC).
        - James: General desire of doing something vs. providing specific support for the next steps.
            - Niko: The shiny future *should* look tentatively good, otherwise it should be scaled back. But looking for getting agreement on the vision and providing the suppport from teams/project toward driving the goal to conclusion.
        - Eric Holk: Noticed that sub-parts of the goal were mostly already RFCs. Team commitment to providing the resources seems important, but doesn't necessarily need an RFC.
            - Niko: Largely agree. I want the teams to sign off but checkboxes do feel unfortunate.
        - Niko: Maybe we should start with a small list for the initial attempt.
        - Josh: Project goal that's approved and an owner goes away, what happens?
            - Niko: (1) we notice that there's no updates, then (2) we mark the goal as inactive.
            - Josh: For goals that are aligned with edition -- are those goals that can't fail?
            - Niko: Should strive to let them fail (e.g., by reducing scope). But if needed, should have extra resources signed up.
        - Jack: Scaling goals down to fit within 6 months, especially lots with lang involvement needed.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out
- Dropped for time
    - [OLD] Budget updates and discussion (Jack **Time**: ?)
        - Previously discussed non-approved items: swag, petty cash budget, "Project ops" hire
        - dropping for time
    - (Additional items in private Zulip stream.)
        - taking to private zulip stream
